A CHRISTMAS TALE . H. C. Andersen in the forest , high up on the steep shore , hard by the open sea coast , stand a very old oak tree . it be exactly three hundred and sixty-five year old , but that long time be not more for the tree than just as many day would be to we man . we wake by day and sleep through the night , and then we have we dream : it be different with the tree , which keep awake through three season of the year , and do not get its sleep till winter come . Winter be its time for rest , its night after the long day which be call spring , summer , and autumn . on many a warm summer day the Ephemera , the fly that live but for a day , have dance around he crown -- have live , enjoy , and feel happy ; and then rest for a moment in quiet bliss the tiny creature , on one of the great fresh oak leaf ; and then the tree always say : `` Poor little thing ! you whole life be but a single day ! how very short ! it be quite melancholy ! '' `` melancholy ! why do you say that ? '' the Ephemera would then always reply . `` it be wonderfully bright , warm , and beautiful all around I , and that make I rejoice ! '' `` but only one day , and then it be all do ! '' `` done ! '' repeat the Ephemera . `` what be the meaning of _ do _ ? be you _ do _ , too ? '' `` no ; I shall perhaps live for thousand of you day , and my day be whole season long ! it be something so long , that you can not at all manage to reckon it out . '' `` no ? then I do not understand you . you say you have thousand of my day ; but I have thousand of moment , in which I can be merry and happy . do all the beauty of this world cease when you die ? '' `` no , '' reply the Tree ; `` it will certainly last much longer -- far longer than I can possibly think . '' `` well , then , we have the same time , only that we reckon differently . '' and the Ephemera dance and float in the air , and rejoice in she delicate wing of gauze and velvet , and rejoice in the balmy breeze laden with the fragrance of meadow and of wild rose and elder-flowers , of the garden hedge , wild thyme , and mint , and daisy ; the scent of these be all so strong that the Ephemera be almost intoxicate . the day be long and beautiful , full of joy and of sweet feeling , and when the sun sink low the little fly feel very agreeably tired of all its happiness and enjoyment . the delicate wing would not carry it any more , and quietly and slowly it glide down upon the soft grass blade , nod its head as well as it could nod , and go quietly to sleep -- and be dead . `` Poor little Ephemera ! '' say the Oak . `` that be a terribly short life ! '' and on every summer day the same dance be repeat , the same question and answer , and the same sleep . the same thing be repeat through whole generation of ephemera , and all of they feel equally merry and equally happy . the Oak stand there awake through the spring morning , the noon of summer , and the evening of autumn ; and its time of rest , its night , be come on apace . Winter be approach . already the storm be sing they `` good night , good night ! '' here fall a leaf , and there fall a leaf . `` we 'll rock you , and dandle you ! go to sleep , go to sleep ! we sing you to sleep , we shake you to sleep , but it do you good in you old twig , do it not ? they seem to crack for very joy ! sleep sweetly , sleep sweetly ! it be you three hundred and sixty-fifth night . properly speaking , you be only a stripling as yet ! sleep sweetly ! the cloud strew down snow , there will be quite a coverlet , warm and protect , around you foot . sweet sleep to you , and pleasant dream ! '' and the Oak Tree stand there , denude of all its leaf , to sleep through the long winter , and to dream many a dream , always about something that have happen to it , just as in the dream of man . the great Oak have once be small -- indeed , a acorn have be its cradle . accord to human computation , it be now in its fourth century . it be the greatest and best tree in the forest ; its crown tower far above all the other tree , and could be descry from afar across the sea , so that it serve as a landmark to the sailor : the tree have no idea how many eye be in the habit of seek it . High up in its green summit the wood-pigeon build she nest , and the cuckoo sit in its bough , and sing he song ; and in autumn , when the leaf look like thin plate of copper , the bird of passage come and rest there , before they fly away across the sea ; but now it be winter , and the tree stand there leafless , so that every one could see how gnarled and crooked the branch be that shot forth from its trunk . crow and rook come and take they seat by turn in the bough , and speak of the hard time which be begin , and of the difficulty of get a living in winter . it be just at the holy Christmas time , when the tree dream its most glorious dream . the tree have a distinct feeling of the festive time , and fancy he hear the bell ring from the church all around ; and yet it seem as if it be a fine summer 's day , mild and warm . fresh and green he spread out he mighty crown ; the sunbeam play among the twig and the leaf ; the air be full of the fragrance of herb and blossom ; gay butterfly chase each other to and fro . the ephemeral insect dance as if all the world be create merely for they to dance and be merry in . all that the tree have experience for year and year , and that have happen around he , seem to pass by he again , as in a festive pageant . he see the knight of ancient day ride by with they noble dame on gallant steed , with plume wave in they bonnet and falcon on they wrist . the hunting horn sound , and the dog bark . he see hostile warrior in color jerkin and with shine weapon , with spear and halbert , pitch they tent and strike they again . the watch-fires flame up anew , and man sing and sleep under the branch of the tree . he see loving couple meeting near he trunk , happily , in the moonshine ; and they cut the initial of they name in the grey-green bark of he stem . once -- but long year have roll by since then -- cithern and aeolian harp have be hang up on he bough by merry wanderer , now they hang there again , and once again they sound in tone of marvellous sweetness . the wood-pigeons coo , as if they be tell what the tree feel in all this , and the cuckoo call out to tell he how many summer day he have yet to live . then it appear to he as if new life be ripple down into the remotest fiber of he root , and mount up into he highest branch , to the top of the leaf . the tree feel that he be stretch and spread himself , and through he root he feel that there be life and motion even in the ground itself . he feel he strength increase , he grow higher , he stem shoot up unceasingly , and he grow more and more , he crown become fuller , and spread out ; and in proportion as the tree grow , he feel he happiness increase , and he joyous hope that he should reach even higher -- quite up to the warm brilliant sun . -lrb-B- illustration : the LOVERS AT the OLD OAK TREE . aaaaa -rrb-B- aaa already have he grow high above the cloud , which float past beneath he crown like dark troops of passage-birds , or like great white swan . and every leaf of the tree have the gift of sight , as if it have eye wherewith to see ; the star become visible in broad daylight , great and sparkling ; each of they sparkle like a pair of eye , mild and clear . they recall to he memory well-known gentle eye , eye of child , eye of lover who have meet beneath he bough . it be a marvellous spectacle , and one full of happiness and joy ! and yet amid all this happiness the tree feel a longing , a yearning desire that all other tree of the wood beneath he , and all the bush , and herb , and flower , might be able to rise with he , that they too might see this splendor , and experience this joy . the great majestic oak be not quite happy in he happiness , while he have not they all , great and little , about he ; and this feeling of yearning tremble through he every twig , through he every leaf , warmly and fervently as through a human heart . the crown of the tree wave to and fro , as if he seek something in he silent longing , and he look down . then he feel the fragrance of thyme , and soon afterwards the more powerful scent of honeysuckle and violet ; and he fancy he hear the cuckoo answer he . yes , through the cloud the green summit of the forest come peer up , and under himself the Oak see the other tree , as they grow and raise themselves aloft . bush and herb shoot up high , and some tear themselves up bodily by the root to rise the quicker . the birch be the quickest of all . like a white streak of lightning , its slender stem shoot upwards in a zigzag line , and the branch spread around it like green gauze and like banner ; the whole woodland native , even to the brown plumed rush , grow up with the rest , and the bird come too , and sing ; and on the grass blade that flutter aloft like a long silken ribbon into the air , sit the grasshopper clean he wing with he leg ; the May beetle hum , and the bee murmur , and every bird sing in he appointed manner ; all be song and sound of gladness up into the high heaven . `` but the little blue flower by the water-side , where be that ? '' say the Oak ; `` and the purple bell-flower and the daisy ? '' for , you see , the old Oak Tree want to have they all about he . `` we be here -- we be here ! '' be shout and sing in reply . `` but the beautiful thyme of last summer -- and in the last year there be certainly a place here cover with lily of the valley ! and the wild apple tree that blossom so splendidly ! and all the glory of the wood that come year by year -- if that have only just be bear , it might have be here now ! '' `` we be here , we be here ! '' reply voice still higher in the air . it seem as if they have fly on before . `` why , that be beautiful , indescribably beautiful ! '' exclaim the old Oak Tree , rejoicingly . `` I have they all around I , great and small ; not one have be forget ! how can so much happiness be imagine ? how can it be possible ? '' `` in heaven , in the better land , it can be imagine , and it be possible ! '' the reply sound through the air . and the old tree , who grow on and on , feel how he root be tear themselves free from the ground . `` that be right , that be better than all ! '' say the tree . `` now no fetter hold I ! I can fly up now , to the very highest , in glory and in light ! and all my beloved one be with I , great and small -- all of they , all ! '' that be the dream of the old Oak Tree ; and while he dream thus a mighty storm come rush over land and sea -- at the holy Christmas tide . the sea roll great billow towards the shore ; there be a crack and crash in the tree -- he root be tear out of the ground in the very moment while he be dream that he root free itself from the earth . he fall . he three hundred and sixty-five year be now as the single day of the Ephemera . on the morning of the Christmas festival , when the sun rise , the storm have subside . from all the church sound the festive bell , and from every hearth , even from the smallest hut , arise the smoke in blue cloud , like the smoke from the altar of the druid of old at the feast of thanks offering . the sea become gradually calm , and on board a great ship in the offing , that have fight successfully with the tempest , all the flag be display , as a token of joy suitable to the festive day . `` the tree be down -- the old Oak Tree , we landmark on the coast ! '' say the sailor . `` it fall in the storm of last night . who can replace it ? no one can . '' this be the funeral oration , short but well mean , that be give to the tree , which lay stretch on the snowy covering on the sea shore ; and over its prostrate form sound the note of a song from the ship , a carol of the joy of Christmas , and of the redemption of the soul of man by he blood , and of eternal life . `` sing , sing aloud , this bless morn -- it be fulfil -- and he be bear , oh , joy without compare ! Hallelujah ! Hallelujah ! '' thus sound the old psalm tune , and every one on board the ship feel lift up in he own way , through the song and the prayer , just as the old tree have feel lift up in its last , its most beauteous dream in the Christmas night .