A CONFIDANT WITHOUT KNOWING it or the STRATAGEM La Fontain no master sage , nor orator I know , who can success , like gentle Cupid show ; he way and argument be please smile , engage look , soft tear , and win wiles . war in he empire will at time arise , and , in the field , he standard meet the eye ; now steal secretly , with skilful lure . he penetrate to heart suppose secure , o'erleap the rampart that protect around , and citadel reduce , most renown . I dare engage , two fortress besiege leave one to Mars , and t ` other to this liege . and though the god of war should number bring , with all the arm that can he thunder fling , before the fort he 'll vainly waste he time , while Cupid , unattended , in shall climb , obtain possession perfectly at ease , and grant condition just as he shall please . I now propose to give a fav ` rite tale : -- the god of Love be never know to fail , in find stratagem , as I have read , and many have I see most nicely spread . the young Aminta be Gerontes ' wife , with whom she live , it seem , a wretched life . far better she deserve than what she have , for he be jealous , and he temper bad : a age hunk , while she be in the hour when heart , that never feel LOVE be mighty pow ` r , be presently by tender object catch , which ne'er before have enter in the thought . when first Aminta see young Cleon 's face , a lad possess all engaging grace , much prudence then she ev ` ry way display , E ` en more perhaps than necessary make . for though we may suppose the lovely fair , would ev ` ry effort use to ` scape the snare , yet when the god of soft persuasion take the fatal moment , havock soon he make , in vain he duty , any thing oppose , if once the tender sentiment 's disclose . Aminta consolation have in view 'twa that alone the passion from she draw , a meeting innocent , to vent she tear , and , to a feeling friend , express she fear . ` Tis represent thus I can not doubt ; but sight of meat bring appetite about ; and if you would avoid the tempting bit , ` ti better far at table not to sit . AMINTA hope to render Cleon kind ; Poor innocent ! as yet to danger blind , these conversation she be lead to deem , mere friendly way that raise sincere esteem ; and this alone she ardently desire , without suppose more would be require , or any thing improper be the case : she would rather die than suffer such disgrace . 'twa difficult the business to commence ; a letter 's often lose , or give offence , and many serious accident arrive : to have a confidant ` twere better strive ; but where could such a female friend be find ? Gerontes dread be by all around . I have say already , Cupid will obtain , one way or t ` other , what he want to gain ; and this will show the observation just the maxim 's such as you may always trust . a female relative young Cleon have , a peevish prude , who look upon the lad , as one she have a right to rule and scold ; she name be Mistress Alice : sour and old . one summer 's day , Aminta to she say : I can not think how ` tis , you cousin 's lead , -lrb-B- Though quite indifferent he be to I , and doubtless such will ever prove to be -rrb-B- with various fond attention , to pretend , he love I -- much beyond a common friend . my window oft he pass day and night ; I can not move a step , but he be in sight , and in a moment at my heel appear ; note , letter full of soft expression , dear , to I be send by one I will not name , for know to you , she would be think to blame : Pray put a end to such a wild pursuit it nothing can produce but wretch fruit ; my husband may take fire at thing like these ; and as to Cleon . -- I he 'll never please ; I 'll thank you to inform he what I say ; such step be useless : folly they betray . much praise Aminta from the dame receive ; who promise that the conduct , which aggrieve ; to cleon she would mention , as desire , and reprimand he , as the fault require : so well would scold he , that she might be sure , from he in future she would be secure . the foll ` wing day we youth to Alice come ; to pay a visit solely be he aim ; she tell he what Aminta have declare , and , in she lecture , word by no means spare . the lad , surprise , on oath the whole deny , and vow to gain she love , he never try . Old Alice call she cousin , imp of Hell ; Said she , in all that be wicked , you excel ; you will not all you base design confess ; the oath be false on which you lay such stress , and punishment most richly you deserve ; but false or true , from this I will not swerve , that you should recollect , Aminta 's chaste , and never will submit to be disgrace ; Renounce she from this hour ; no more pursue : -- that easily , say Cleon , I can do ; away he go : the case consider o ` er ; but still the myst ` ry he could not explore . three day have scarcely pass : Aminta come , to pay a visit to we ancient dame ; Cried she I fear , you have not see as yet , this youth , who worse and worse appear to get . rage , Mistress Alice , instantly o ` erspread , and ev ` ry thing that be vile she of he say . no sooner have Aminta go away , but she for Cleon send without delay . he presently appear ; yet to detail how Alice storm , I certainly should fail ; unless a iron tongue I could obtain : all Hell be ransack epithet to gain ; and Lucifer and Beelzebub be use : no mortal ever be so much abused . QUITE terrify , poor lad , he scarcely know ; she fury be so great , what best to do ; if he allow that he have act wrong , ` Twould wind he conscience and defile he tongue . he home repair , and turn in he mind what he have hear , at length he thought incline , to fancy that Aminta be dispose , to play some cunning trick , which , not disclose , would operate to bring she wish about ; I see , say he , the scheme I should not doubt ; it surely be my duty kind to be : MethinksS I hear she freely say to I , O Cleon ! show affection , I be yours ; I love she too , for beauty that secure ; and while she seraph charm my bosom fire ; I equally the stratagem admire . most freely howsoe'er I will confess , at first I be so dull , I could not guess at what she aim , but now the object 's plain : Aminta o ` er my heart desire to reign . this minute , if I dare , I would thither go , and , full of confidence , declare my woe , the subtle flame that burn without controul ; what hurt to paint feeling of my soul ? from balance of account ` twill both exempt : ` tis better far to love than show contempt . but should the husband find I in the house ? -- ne'er think of that , and try the hunk to chouse . THEIR course have hardly run three other day , when fair Aminta , studious still of way to have she wish , again to Alice come , to give dear cleon notice of she flame . my home , cry she , ` ti requisite I leave : to ruin I , you cousin , I perceive , be still resolve , for present now he send ; but he mistake , and blindly wealth expend ; I be clearly not the woman he suspect : see here , what jewel rare to please the sex ! nice ruby , diamond too , but what be more , my portrait I have find among the store , which must have be from memory design , since only with my husband that you 'll find . when I arise , this person know to you , Whose name I must conceal -lrb-B- to honor true -rrb-B- , Arrived and bring I what I just have show ; the whole should at you cousin 's head be throw ; and be he present : -- but I 'll curb my rage ; allow I to proceed , and you engage to hear the rest : -- he word have also send , that as to-day he know my husband go on business to he cottage in the wood , where he would sleep the night , he understand , no sooner should the servant be in bed , and Morpheus ' robe be o ` er they sens spread , but to my dress room he would repair : -- what can he hope , such project to declare ? a meeting place indeed ! -- he must be mad ; be I not fearful ` twould affliction add to my old husband , I would set a watch , who , at the entrance , should the villain catch ; or put he instantly to shame and flight ; this say , she presently be out of sight . a hour have pass when Cleon come anew ; the jewel at he in a moment fly ; and scarcely Mistress Alice could refrain , from wreak further vengeance on the swain . be this you plan ? cry she ; but what be worse , I find you still desire a greater curse ; and then she tell he all Aminta say , when last to visit she the fair be lead . HIMSELF most fully warn the youth now think ; I love , cry he , ` ti true ; but that be naught , since nothing from the belle I must expect : in future she completely I 'll neglect . that be the line , say Alice , you should take ; the lad howe'er be fully now awake , and thoroughly resolve to seek the dame , whose cunning wiles have set he in a flame . the midnight hour the clock no sooner tell ; than Cleon run the myst ` ry to unfold , and to the spot repair , which he suppose , Aminta mean , from what have be disclose ; the place be well describe , and there he find ; await at the door , this belle renown , without attendant : sleep they eye o ` erspread : behind thick cloud the very star have flee : as all have be expect , in he go , most thoroughly they both appear content ; few word be use : in haste the pair withdraw , where ev ` ry wish at ease they might pursue . the smart gallant at once she beauty praise ; he admiration presently be raise ; Sweet kindness follow ; charm be oft admire ; and all be manage as they heart desire . say youthful Cleon , now you 'll tell I why this stratagem you be induce to try ? for such before in love be never see ; ` ti excellent , and worthy beauty 's queen . a lovely blush o ` erspread Aminta 's face , and give she lily-cheeks superior grace . he praise she person , artifice , and wit , and do whate'er the moment would admit .