A LAC of RUPEES for a bit of ADVICE Indian Writer by Indian Writer a poor blind Brahman and he wife be dependent on they son for they subsistence . every day the young fellow use to go out and get what he could by beg . this continue for some time , till at last he become quite tired of such a wretched life , and determine to go and try he luck in another country . he inform he wife of he intention , and order she to manage somehow or other for the old people during the few month that he would be absent . he beg she to be industrious , lest he parent should be angry and curse he . one morning he start with some food in a bundle , and walk on day after day , till he reach the chief city of the neighbouring country . here he go and sit down by a merchant 's shop and ask alms . the merchant inquire whence he have come , why he have come , and what be he caste ; to which he reply that he be a Brahman , and be wander hither and thither beg a livelihood for himself and wife and parent . move with pity for the man , the merchant advise he to visit the kind and generous king of that country , and offer to accompany he to the court . now at that time it happen that the king be seek for a Brahman to look after a golden temple which he have just have build . he Majesty be very glad , therefore , when he see the Brahman and hear that he be good and honest . he at once depute he to the charge of this temple , and order fifty kharwar of rice and one hundred rupee to be pay to he every year as wages . two month after this , the Brahman 's wife , not have hear any news of she husband , leave the house and go in quest of he . by a happy fate she arrive at the very place that he have reach , where she hear that every morning at the golden temple a golden rupee be give in the king 's name to any beggar who choose to go for it . accordingly , on the following morning she go to the place and meet she husband . `` why have you come here ? '' he ask . `` why have you leave my parent ? Care you not whether they curse I and I die ? go back immediately , and await my return . '' `` no , no , '' say the woman . `` I can not go back to starve and see you old father and mother die . there be not a grain of rice leave in the house . '' `` O Bhagawant ! '' exclaim the Brahman . `` here , take this , '' he continue , scribble a few line on some paper , and then hand it to she , `` and give it to the king . you will see that he will give you a lac of rupee for it . '' thus say he dismiss she , and the woman leave . on this scrap of paper be write three piece of advice -- First , if a person be travel and reach any strange place at night , let he be careful where he put up , and not close he eye in sleep , lest he close they in death . secondly , if a man have a married sister , and visit she in great pomp , she will receive he for the sake of what she can obtain from he ; but if he come to she in poverty , she will frown on he and disown he . thirdly , if a man have to do any work , he must do it himself , and do it with might and without fear . on reach she home the Brahmani tell she parent of she meeting with she husband , and what a valuable piece of paper he have give she ; but not like to go before the king herself , she send one of she relation . the king read the paper , and order the man to be flog , dismiss he . the next morning the Brahmani take the paper , and while she be go along the road to the darbar reading it , the king 's son meet she , and ask what she be read , whereupon she reply that she hold in she hand a paper contain certain bit of advice , for which she want a lac of rupee . the prince ask she to show it to he , and when he have read it give she a parwana for the amount , and ride on . the poor Brahmani be very thankful . that day she lay in a great store of provision , sufficient to last they all for a long time . in the evening the prince relate to he father the meeting with the woman , and the purchase of the piece of paper . he think he father would applaud the act . but it be not so . the king be more angry than before , and banish he son from the country . so the prince bade adieu to he mother and relation and friend , and ride off on he horse , whither he do not know . at nightfall he arrive at some place , where a man meet he , and invite he to lodge at he house . the prince accept the invitation , and be treat like a prince . mat be spread for he to squat on , and the best provision set before he . `` ah ! '' thought he , as he lay down to rest , `` here be a case for the first piece of advice that the Brahmani give I . I will not sleep to-night . '' it be well that he thus resolve , for in the middle of the night the man rise up , and take a sword in he hand , rush to the prince with the intention of kill he . but he rise up and speak . `` do not slay I , '' he say . `` what profit would you get from my death ? if you kill I you would be sorry afterwards , like that man who kill he dog . '' `` what man ? what dog ? '' he ask . `` I will tell you , '' say the prince , `` if you will give I that sword . '' so he give he the sword , and the prince begin he story : `` once upon a time there live a wealthy merchant who have a pet dog . he be suddenly reduce to poverty , and have to part with he dog . he get a loan of five thousand rupee from a brother merchant , leave the dog as a pledge , and with the money begin business again . not long after this the other merchant 's shop be break into by thief and completely sack . there be hardly ten rupee ' worth left in the place . the faithful dog , however , know what be go on , and go and follow the thief , and see where they deposit the thing , and then return . `` in the morning there be great weep and lamentation in the merchant 's house when it be know what have happen . the merchant himself nearly go mad . meanwhile the dog keep on run to the door , and pull at he master 's shirt and paijama , as though wish he to go outside . at last a friend suggest that , perhaps , the dog know something of the whereabouts of the thing , and advise the merchant to follow its leading . the merchant consent , and go after the dog right up to the very place where the thief have hide the goods . here the animal scrape and bark , and show in various way that the thing be underneath . so the merchant and he friend dig about the place , and soon come upon all the steal property . nothing be miss . there be everything just as the thief have take they . `` the merchant be very glad . on return to he house , he at once send the dog back to its old master with a letter roll under the collar , wherein he have write about the sagacity of the beast , and beg he friend to forget the loan and to accept another five thousand rupee as a present . when this merchant see he dog come back again , he think , ` AlasS ! my friend be want the money . how can I pay he ? I have not have sufficient time to recover myself from my recent loss . I will slay the dog ere he reach the threshold , and say that another must have slay it . thus there will be a end of my debt . ' `` no dog , no loan . accordingly he run out and kill the poor dog , when the letter fall out of its collar . the merchant pick it up and read it . how great be he grief and disappointment when he know the fact of the case ! `` beware , '' continue the prince , `` lest you do that which afterwards you would give you life not to have do . '' by the time the prince have conclude this story it be nearly morning , and he go away , after reward the man . the prince then visit the country belong to he brother-in-law . he disguise himself as a jogus , and sit down by a tree near the palace , pretend to be absorb in worship . News of the man and of he wonderful piety reach the ear of the king . he feel interested in he , as he wife be very ill ; and he have seek for hakim to cure she , but in vain . he think that , perhaps , this holy man could do something for she . so he send to he . but the jogus refuse to tread the hall of a king , say that he dwelling be the open air , and that if he Majesty wish to see he he must come himself and bring he wife to the place . then the king take he wife and bring she to the jogus . the holy man bid she prostrate herself before he , and when she have remain in this position for about three hour , he tell she to rise and go , for she be cure . in the evening there be great consternation in the palace , because the queen have lose she pearl rosary , and nobody know anything about it . at length some one go to the jogus , and find it on the ground by the place where the queen have prostrate herself . when the king hear this he be very angry , and order the jogus to be execute . this stern order , however , be not carry out , as the prince bribe the man and escape from the country . but he know that the second bit of advice be true . clothe in he own clothes , the prince be walk along one day when he see a potter cry and laugh alternately with he wife and child . `` o fool , '' say he , `` what be the matter ? if you laugh , why do you weep ? if you weep , why do you laugh ? '' `` do not bother I , '' say the potter . `` what do it matter to you ? '' `` pardon I , '' say the prince , `` but I should like to know the reason . '' `` the reason be this , then , '' say the potter . `` the king of this country have a daughter whom he be oblige to marry every day , because all she husband die the first night of they stay with she . nearly all the young man of the place have thus perish , and we son will be call on soon . we laugh at the absurdity of the thing -- a potter 's son marry a princess , and we cry at the terrible consequence of the marriage . what can we do ? '' `` truly a matter for laugh and weep . but weep no more , '' say the prince . `` I will exchange place with you son , and will be marry to the princess instead of he . only give I suitable garment , and prepare I for the occasion . '' so the potter give he beautiful raiment and ornament , and the prince go to the palace . at night he be conduct to the apartment of the princess . `` dread hour ! '' thought he ; `` be I to die like the score of young man before I ? '' he clench he sword with firm grip , and lay down on he bed , intend to keep awake all the night and see what would happen . in the middle of the night he see two shahmar come out from the nostril of the princess . they steal over towards he , intend to kill he , like the other who have be before he : but he be ready for they . he lay hold of he sword , and when the snake reach he bed he strike at they and kill they . in the morning the king come as usual to inquire , and be surprise to hear he daughter and the prince talk gaily together . `` surely , '' say he , `` this man must be she husband , as he only can live with she . '' `` where do you come from ? who be you ? '' ask the king , enter the room . `` o king ! '' reply the prince , `` I be the son of a king who rule over such-and-such a country . '' when he hear this the king be very glad , and bid the prince to abide in he palace , and appoint he he successor to the throne . the prince remain at the palace for more than a year , and then ask permission to visit he own country , which be grant . the king give he elephant , horse , jewel , and abundance of money for the expense of the way and as present for he father , and the prince start . on the way he have to pass through the country belong to he brother - in-law , whom we have already mention . Report of he arrival reach the ear of the king , who come with rope-tied hand and haltered neck to do he homage . he most humbly beg he to stay at he palace , and to accept what little hospitality could be provide . while the prince be stay at the palace he see he sister , who greet he with smile and kiss . on leave he tell she how she and she husband have treat he at he first visit , and how he have escape ; and then give they two elephant , two beautiful horse , fifteen soldier , and ten lac rupee ' worth of jewel . afterwards he go to he own home , and inform he mother and father of he arrival . Alas ! he parent have both become blind from weep about the loss of they son . `` let he come in , '' say the king , `` and put he hand upon we eye , and we shall see again . '' so the prince enter , and be most affectionately greet by he old parent ; and he lay he hand on they eye , and they see again . then the prince tell he father all that have happen to he , and how he have be save several time by attend to the advice that he have purchase from the Brahmani . Whereupon the king express he sorrow for have send he away , and all be joy and peace again .