A LEAF from the sky . H. C. Andersen High up yonder , in the thin clear air , fly a angel with a flower from the heavenly garden . as he be kiss the flower , a very little leaf fall down into the soft soil in the midst of the wood , and immediately take root , and sprout , and send forth shoot among the other plant . `` a funny kind of slip that , '' say the plant . and neither thistle nor stinging-nettle would recognize the stranger . `` that must be a kind of garden plant , '' say they . and they sneer ; and the plant be despise by they as be a thing out of the garden . `` where be you come ? '' cry the lofty thistle , whose leaf be all arm with thorn . `` you give yourself a good deal of space . that be all nonsense -- we be not here to support you ! '' they grumble . and winter come , and snow cover the plant ; but the plant impart to the snowy cover a lustre as if the sun be shine upon it from below as from above . when spring come , the plant appear as a bloom object , more beautiful than any production of the forest . and now appear on the scene the botanical professor , who could show what he be in black and white . he inspect the plant and test it , but find it be not include in he botanical system ; and he could not possibly find out to what class it belong . `` that must be some subordinate species , '' he say . `` I do not know it . it be not include in any system . '' `` not include in any system ! '' repeat the thistle and the nettle . the great tree that stand round about saw and hear it ; but they say not a word , good or bad , which be the wisest thing to do for people who be stupid . there come through the forest a poor innocent girl . she heart be pure , and she understanding be enlarged by faith . she whole inheritance be a old Bible ; but out of its page a voice say to she , `` if people wish to do we evil , remember how it be say of Joseph . they imagine evil in they heart , but God turn it to good . if we suffer wrong -- if we be misunderstand and despise -- then we may recall the word of he who be purity and goodness itself , and who forgive and pray for those who buffet he and nail he to the cross . '' the girl stand still in front of the wonderful plant , whose great leaf exhale a sweet and refreshing fragrance , and whose flower glitter like a color flame in the sun ; and from each flower there come a sound as though it conceal within itself a deep fount of melody that thousand of year could not exhaust . with pious gratitude the girl look on this beautiful work of the Creator , and bent down one of the branch towards herself to breathe in its sweetness ; and a light arise in she soul . it seem to do she heart good ; and gladly would she have pluck a flower , but she could not make up she mind to break one off , for it would soon fade if she do so . therefore the girl only take a single leaf , and lay it in she Bible at home ; and it lay there quite fresh , always green , and never fading . among the page of the Bible it be keep ; and , with the Bible , it be lay under the young girl 's head when , a few week afterwards , she lay in she coffin , with the solemn calm of death on she gentle face , as if the earthly remains bear the impress of the truth that she now stand before she Creator . but the wonderful plant still bloom without in the forest . it be almost like a tree to look upon ; and all the bird of passage bow before it . `` that be give itself foreign air now , '' say the thistle and the burdock ; `` we never behave like that here . '' and the black snail actually spit at the flower . then come the swineherd . he be collect thistle and shrub , to burn they for the ash . the wonderful plant be place bodily in he bundle . `` it shall be make useful , '' he say ; and so say , so do . -lrb-B- illustration : the POOR GIRL 's treasure . aaaaa -rrb-B- aaa but soon afterwards , the king of the country be trouble with a terrible depression of spirit . he be busy and industrious , but that do he no good . they read he deep and learn book , and then they read from the lightest and most superficial that they could find ; but it be of no use . then one of the wise man of the world , to whom they have apply , send a messenger to tell the king that there be one remedy to give he relief and to cure he . he say : `` in the king 's own country there grow in a forest a plant of heavenly origin . its appearance be thus and thus . it can not be mistake . '' `` I fancy it be take up in my bundle , and burnt to ash long ago , '' say the swineherd ; `` but I do not know any better . '' `` you do not know any better ! ignorance of ignorance ! '' and those word the swineherd might well take to himself , for they be mean for he , and for no one else . not another leaf be to be find ; the only one lay in the coffin of the dead girl , and no one know anything about that . and the king himself , in he melancholy , wander out to the spot in the wood . `` here be where the plant stand , '' he say ; `` it be a sacred place . '' and the place be surround with a golden railing , and a sentry be post there . the botanical professor write a long treatise upon the heavenly plant . for this he be gilded all over , and this gilding suit he and he family very well . and indeed that be the most agreeable part of the whole story . but the king remain as low-spirited as before ; but that he have always be , at least so the sentry say .