a story from the sand-dunes . H. C. Andersen This be a story from the sand-dunes or sand-hills of Jutland ; though it do not begin in Jutland , the northern peninsula , but far away in the south , in Spain . the ocean be the high road between the nation -- transport thyself thither in thought to sunny Spain . there it be warm and beautiful , there the fiery pomegranate blossom flourish among the dark laurel ; from the mountain a cool refreshing wind blow down , upon , and over the orange garden , over the gorgeous moorish hall with they golden cupola and color wall : through the street go child in procession , with candle and with wave flag , and over they , lofty and clear , rise the sky with its gleaming star . there be a sound of song and of castagnette , and youth and maiden join in the dance under the bloom acacia , while the mendicant sit upon the hew marble stone , refresh himself with the juicy melon , and dreamily enjoy life . the whole be like a glorious dream . and there be a newly marry couple who completely give themselves up to its charm ; moreover , they possess the good thing of this life , health and cheerfulness of soul , riches and honor . `` we be as happy as it be possible to be , '' exclaim the young couple , from the depths of they heart they have indeed but one step more to mount in the ladder of happiness , in the hope that God would give they a child ; a son like they in form and in spirit . the happy child would be welcome with rejoicing , would be tend with all care and love , and enjoy every advantage that wealth and ease possess by a influential family could give . and the day go by like a glad festival . `` Life be a gracious gift of Providence , a almost inappreciable gift ! '' say the young wife , `` and yet they tell we that fulness of joy be find only in the future life , for ever and ever . I can not compass the thought . '' `` and perhaps the thought arise from the arrogance of man , '' say the husband . `` it seem a great pride to believe that we shall live for ever , that we shall be as god . be these not the word of the serpent , the origin of falsehood ? '' `` surely you do not doubt the future life ? '' exclaim the young wife ; and it seem as if one of the first shadow flit over the sunny heaven of she thought . `` faith promise it , and the priest tell we so ! '' reply the man ; `` but amid all my happiness , I feel that it be arrogance to demand a continued happiness , another life after this . have not so much be give we in this state of existence , that we ought to be , that we _ must _ be , contented with it ? '' `` yes , it have be give to _ we _ , '' say the young wife , `` but to how many thousand be not this life one scene of hard trial ? how many have be throw into this world , as if only to suffer poverty and shame and sickness and misfortune ? if there be no life after this , everything on earth would be too unequally distribute , and the Almighty would not be justice itself . '' `` Yonder beggar , '' reply the man , `` have he joy which seem to he great , and which rejoice he as much as the king be rejoice in the splendor of he palace . and then , do you not think that the beast of burden , which suffer blow and hunger , and work itself to death , suffer from its heavy fate ? the dumb beast might likewise demand a future life , and declare the decree unjust that do not admit it into a higher place of creation . '' `` he have say , ` in my Father 's house be many mansion , ' '' reply the young wife : `` heaven be immeasurable , as the love of we maker be immeasurable . even the dumb beast be he creature ; and I firmly believe that no life will be lose , but that each will receive that amount of happiness which he can enjoy , and which be sufficient for he . '' `` this world be sufficient for I ! '' say the man , and he throw he arm round he beautiful , amiable wife , and then smoke he cigarette on the open balcony , where the cool air be fill with the fragrance of orange and pink . the sound of music and the clatter of castagnette come up from the road , the star gleam above , and two eye full of affection , the eye of he wife , look on he with the undying glance of love . -lrb-B- illustration : in SPAIN . aaaaa -rrb-B- aaa `` such a moment , '' he say , `` make it worth while to be bear , to fall , and to disappear ! '' and he smile . the young wife raise she hand in mild reproach , and the shadow pass away from she world , and they be happy -- quite happy . Everything seem to work together for they . they advance in honor , in prosperity , and in joy . there be a change , indeed , but only a change of place ; not in enjoyment of life and of happiness . the young man be send by he sovereign as ambassador to the court of Russia . this be a honorable office , and he birth and he acquirement give he a title to be thus honor . he possess a great fortune , and he wife have bring he wealth equal to he own , for she be the daughter of a rich and respected merchant . one of this merchant 's largest and finest ship be to be dispatch during that year to Stockholm , and it be arrange that the dear young people , the daughter and the son-in-law , should travel in it to St. Petersburg . and all the arrangement on board be princely -- rich carpet for the foot , and silk and luxury on all side . in a old heroic song , `` the King 's Son of England , '' it say , `` moreover , he sail in a gallant ship , and the anchor be gilded with ruddy gold , and each rope be weave through with silk , '' and this ship involuntarily rise in the mind of he who see the vessel from Spain , for here be the same pomp , and the same parting think naturally arise -- the thought : `` God grant that we all in joy once more may meet again . '' and the wind blow fairly seaward from the spanish shore , and the parting be to be but a brief one , for in a few week the voyager would reach they destination ; but when they come out upon the high sea , the wind sink , the sea become calm and shine , the star of heaven gleam brightly , and they be festive evening that be spend in the sumptuous cabin . at length the voyager begin to wish for wind , for a favor breeze ; but the breeze would not blow , or , if it do arise , it be contrary . thus week pass away , two full month ; and then at last the fair wind blow -- it blow from the south-west . the ship sail on the high sea between Scotland and Jutland , and the wind increase just as in the old song of `` the King 's Son of England . '' `` and it blow a storm , and the rain come down , and they find not land nor shelter , and forth they throw they anchor of gold , as the wind blow westward , toward Denmark . '' this all happen a long , long while ago . King Christian VII . then sit on the danish throne , and he be still a young man . much have happen since that time , much have change or have be change . Sea and moorland have be convert into green meadow , heath have become arable land , and in the shelter of the west jute hut grow apple tree and rise bush , though they certainly require to be seek for , as they bend beneath the sharp west wind . in western Jutland one may go back in thought to the old time , farther back than the day when Christian VII . bear rule . as it do then , in Jutland , the brown heath now also extend for mile , with its `` Hun 's Graves , '' its aerial spectacles , and its cross , sandy , uneven road ; westward , where large rivulet run into the bay , extend marsh and meadow land , girdle with lofty sand-hills , which , like a row of Alps , raise they peaked summit towards the sea , only break by the high clayey ridge , from which the wave year by year bite out huge mouthful , so that the impending shore fall down as if by the shock of a earthquake . thus it be there to-day , and thus it be many , many year ago , when the happy pair be sail in the gorgeous ship . it be in the last day of September , a Sunday , and sunny weather ; the chiming of the church bell in the bay of Nissum be waft along like a chain of sound . the church there be erect almost entirely of hew boulder stone , each like a piece of rock ; the North Sea might foam over they , and they would not be overthrow . most of they be without steeple , and the bell be hang between two beam in the open air . the service be over , and the congregation throng out into the churchyard , where then , as now , not a tree nor a bush be to be see ; not a single flower have be plant there , nor have a wreath be lay upon the grave . rough mound show where the dead have be bury , and rank grass , toss by the wind , grow thickly over the whole churchyard . here and there a grave have a monument to show , in the shape of a half-decayed block of wood rudely shape into the form of a coffin , the say block have be bring from the forest of West Jutland ; but the forest of West Jutland be the wild sea itself , where the inhabitant find the hew beam and plank and fragment which the breaker cast ashore . the wind and the sea fog soon destroy the wood . one of these block have be place by love hand on a child 's grave , and one of the woman , who have come out of the church , step towards it . she stand still in front of it , and let she glance rest on the discolor memorial . a few moment afterwards she husband step up to she . neither of they speak a word , but he take she hand , and they wander across the brown heath , over moor and meadow , towards the sand-hills ; for a long time they thus walk silently side by side . `` that be a good sermon to-day , '' the man say at length . `` if we have not God to look to , we should have nothing ! '' `` yes , '' observe the woman , `` he send joy and sorrow , and he have a right to send they . to-morrow we little boy would have be five year old , if we have be allow to keep he . '' `` you will gain nothing by fret , wife , '' say the man . `` the boy be well provide for . he be there whither we pray to go . '' and they say nothing more , but go forward to they house among the sand-hills . suddenly , in front of one of the house where the sea grass do not keep the sand down with its twine root , there arise what appear to be a column of smoke rise into the air . a gust of wind sweep in among the hill , whirling the particle of sand high in the air . another , and the string of fish hang up to dry flapped and beat violently against the wall of the hut ; and then all be still again , and the sun shone down hotly . man and wife step into the house . they have soon take off they Sunday clothes , and emerge again , they hurry away over the dune , which stand there like huge wave of sand suddenly arrest in they course , while the sandweed and the dunegrass with its bluish stalk spread a change color over they . a few neighbor come up , and help one another to draw the boat higher up on the sand . the wind now blow more sharply than before ; it be cut and cold : and when they go back over the sand-hills , sand and little pointed stone blow into they face . the wave rear themselves up with they white crown of foam , and the wind cut off they crest , fling the foam far around . the evening come on . in the air be a swell roar , moan and complain like a troop of despair spirit , that sound above the hoarse rolling of the sea ; for the fisher 's little hut be on the very margin . the sand rattle against the window pane , and every now and then come a violent gust of wind , that shake the house to its foundation . it be dark , but towards midnight the moon would rise . the air become clearer , but the storm sweep in all its gigantic force over the perturb sea . the fisher people have long go to bed , but in such weather there be no chance of close a eye . presently there be a knock at the window , and the door be open , and a voice say : `` there be a great ship fast strand on the outermost reef . '' in a moment the fish people have spring from they couch , and hastily arrayed themselves . the moon have rise , it be light enough to make the surrounding object visible , to those who could open they eye for the blind cloud of sand . the violence of the wind be terrible ; and only by creep forward between the gust be it possible to pass among the sand-hills ; and now the salt spray fly up from the sea like down , while the ocean foam like a roaring cataract towards the beach . it require a practiced eye to descry the vessel out in the offing . the vessel be a noble brig . the billow now lift it over the reef , three or four cable ' length out of the usual channel . it drive towards the land , strike against the second reef , and remain fix . -lrb-B- illustration : save from the wreck . aaaaa -rrb-B- aaa to render assistance be impossible ; the sea roll fairly in upon the vessel , make a clean breach over she . those on shore fancy they hear the cry of help from on board , and could plainly descry the busy useless effort make by the strand crew . now a wave come rolling onward , fall like a rock upon the bowsprit , and tear it from the brig . the stern be lift high above the flood . two people be see to embrace and plunge together into the sea ; in a moment more , and one of the largest wave that roll towards the sand-hills throw a body upon the shore . it be a woman , and appear quite dead , say the sailor ; but some woman think they discern sign of life in she , and the stranger be carry across the sand-hills into the fisherman 's hut . how beautiful and fair she be ! certainly she must be a great lady . they lay she upon the humble bed that boast not a yard of linen ; but there be a woollen coverlet , and that would keep the occupant warm . Life return to she , but she be delirious , and know nothing of what have happen , or where she be ; and it be better so , for everything she love and value lay bury in the sea . it be with she ship as with the vessel in the song of `` the King 's Son of England . '' `` Alas , it be a grief to see how the gallant ship sink speedily . '' portion of wreck and fragment of wood drift ashore , and they be all that remain of what have be the ship . the wind still drive howl over the coast . for a few moment the strange lady seem to rest ; but she awake in pain , and cry of anguish and fear come from she lip . she open she wonderfully beautiful eye , and speak a few word , but none understand she . and behold , as a reward for the pain and sorrow she have undergo , she hold in she arm a new-born child , the child that be to have rest upon a gorgeous couch , surround by silken curtain , in the sumptuous home . it be to have be welcome with joy to a life rich in all the goods of the earth ; and now Providence have cause it to be bear in this humble retreat , and not even a kiss do it receive from its mother . the fisher 's wife lay the child upon the mother 's bosom , and it rest on a heart that beat no more , for she be dead . the child who be to be nurse by wealth and fortune , be cast into the world , wash by the sea among the sand-hills , to partake the fate and heavy day of the poor . and here again come into we mind the old song of the english king 's son , in which mention be make of the custom prevalent at that time , when knight and squire plunder those who have be save from shipwreck . the ship have be strand some distance south of Nissum Bay . the hard , inhuman day in which , as we have state , the inhabitant of the Jutland shore do evil to the shipwrecked , be long past . Affection and sympathy and self-sacrifice for the unfortunate be to be find , as they be to be find in we own time , in many a brilliant example . the die mother and the unfortunate child would have find succor and help wherever the wind blow they ; but nowhere could they have find more earnest care than in the hut of the poor fisherwife ; who have stand but yesterday , with a heavy heart , beside the grave which cover she child , which would have be five year old that day , if God have spare it to she . no one know who the dead stranger be , or could even form a conjecture . the piece of wreck say nothing on the subject . Into the rich house in Spain no tiding penetrate of the fate of the daughter and the son-in-law . they have not arrive at they destine post , and violent storm have rage during the past week . at last the verdict be give , `` founder at sea -- all lose . '' but in the sand-hills near Hunsby , in the fisherman 's hut , live a little scion of the rich Spanish family . where Heaven send food for two , a third can manage to make a meal , and in the depths of the sea be many a dish of fish for the hungry . and they call the boy Juergen . `` it must certainly be a jewish child , '' the people say , `` it look so swarthy . '' `` it might be a italian or a Spaniard , '' observe the clergyman . but to the fisherwoman these three nation seem all the same , and she console herself with the idea that the child be baptize as a Christian . the boy throve . the noble blood in he vein be warm , and he become strong on he homely fare . he grow apace in the humble house , and the danish dialect speak by the West Jutes become he language . the pomegranate seed from spanish soil become a hardy plant on the coast of West Jutland . such may be a man 's fate ! to this home he cling with the root of he whole be . he be to have experience of cold and hunger , and the misfortune and hardship that surround the humble ; but he taste also of the poor man 's joy . childhood have sunny height for all , whose memory gleam through the whole after life . the boy have many opportunity for pleasure and play . the whole coast , for mile and mile , be full of plaything ; for it be a mosaic of pebble , red as coral , yellow as amber , and other again white and round like bird ' egg ; and all smooth and prepare by the sea . even the bleached fish skeleton , the water plant dry by the wind , seaweed , white , gleaming , and long linen-like band , wave among the stone , all these seem make to give pleasure and amusement to the eye and the thought ; and the boy have a intelligent mind -- many and great faculty lay dormant in he . how readily he retain in he mind the story and song he hear , and how neat-handed he be ! with stone and mussel shell he put together picture and ship with which one could decorate the room ; and he could cut out he thought wonderfully on a stick , he foster-mother say , though the boy be still so young and little ! he voice sound sweetly ; every melody flow at once from he lip . many chord be attain in he heart which might have sound out into the world , if he have be place elsewhere than in the fisherman 's hut by the North Sea . one day another ship be strand there . among other thing , a chest of rare flower bulb float ashore . some be put into the cooking pot , for they be think to be eatable , and other lay and shrivel in the sand , but they do not accomplish they purpose , or unfold the richness of color whose germ be within they . would it be better with Juergen ? the flower bulb have soon play they part , but he have still year of apprenticeship before he . neither he nor he friend remark in what a solitary and uniform way one day succeed another ; for there be plenty to do and to see . the sea itself be a great lesson book , unfold a new leaf every day , such as calm and storm , breaker and waif . the visit to the church be festal visit . but among the festal visit in the fisherman 's house , one be particularly distinguished . it be repeat twice in the year , and be , in fact , the visit of the brother of Juergen 's foster-mother , the eel breeder from Zjaltring , upon the neighborhood of the `` Bow Hill . '' he use to come in a cart paint red , and fill with eel . the cart be cover and lock like a box , and paint all over with blue and white tulip . it be draw by two dun ox , and Juergen be allow to guide they . the eel breeder be a witty fellow , a merry guest , and bring a measure of brandy with he . every one receive a small glassful , or a cupful when there be a scarcity of glass : even Juergen have as much as a large thimbleful , that he might digest the fat eel , the eel breeder say , who always tell the same story over again , and when he hearer laugh he immediately tell it over again to the same audience . as , during he childhood , and even later , Juergen use many expression from this story of the eel breeder 's , and make use of it in various way , it be as well that we should listen to it too . here it be : `` the eel go into the bay ; and the mother-eel say to she daughter , who beg leave to go a little way up the bay , ` do not go too far : the ugly eel spearer might come and snap you all up . ' but they go too far ; and of eight daughter only three come back to the eel-mother , and these weep and say , ` we only go a little way before the door , and the ugly eel spearer come directly , and stab five of we party to death . ' ` they 'll come again , ' say the mother-eel . ` oh no , ' exclaim the daughter , ` for he skin they , and cut they in two , and fry they . ' ` oh , they 'll come again , ' the mother-eel persist . ` no , ' reply the daughter , ` for he eat they up . ' ` they 'll come again , ' repeat the mother-eel . ` but he drink brandy after they , ' continue the daughter . ` ah , then they 'll never come back , ' say the mother , and she burst out cry , ` it be the brandy that bury the eel . ' `` and therefore , '' say the eel breeder , in conclusion , `` it be always right to take brandy after eat eel . '' -lrb-B- illustration : the eel breeder be VISIT . aaaaa -rrb-B- aaa and this story be the tinsel thread , the most humorous recollection of Juergen 's life . _ he _ likewise want to go a little way outside the door , and up the bay -- that be to say , out into the world in a ship ; and he mother say , like the eel breeder , `` there be so many bad people -- eel spearer ! '' but he wish to go a little way past the sand-hills , a little way into the dune , and he succeed in do so . four merry day , the happiest of he childhood , unrolled themselves , and the whole beauty and splendor of Jutland , all the joy and sunshine of he home , be concentrate in these . he be to go to a festival -- though it be certainly a burial feast . a wealthy relative of the fisherman 's family have die . the farm lay deep in the country , eastward , and a point towards the north , as the say be . Juergen 's foster-parents be to go , and he be to accompany they from the dune , across heath and moor . they come to the green meadow where the river Skjaern roll its course , the river of many eel , where mother-eels dwell with they daughter , who be catch and eat up by wicked people . but man be say sometimes to have act no better towards they own fellow man ; for have not the knight , Sir Bugge , be murder by wicked people ? and though he be well speak of , have he not want to kill the architect , as the legend tell we , who have build for he the castle , with the thick wall and tower , where Juergen and he parent now stand , and where the river fall into the bay ? the wall on the rampart still remain , and red crumble fragment lay strew around . here it be that Sir Bugge , after the architect have leave he , say to one of he man , `` go thou after he , and say , ` Master , the tower shake . ' if he turn round , you be to kill he , and take from he the money I pay he ; but if he do not turn round , let he depart in peace . '' the man obey , and the architect never turn round , but call back , `` the tower do not shake in the least , but one day there will come a man from the west , in a blue cloak , who will cause it to shake ! '' and indeed so it chance , a hundred year later ; for the North Sea break in , and the tower be cast down , but the man who then possess the castle , Prebjoern Gyldenstjerne , build a new castle higher up , at the end of the meadow , and that stand to this day , and be call Noerre Vosborg . past this castle go Juergen and he foster-parents . they have tell he its story during the long winter evening , and now he see the lordly castle , with its double moat , and tree , and bush ; the wall , cover with fern , rise within the moat ; but most beautiful of all be the lofty lime tree , which grow up to the highest window , and fill the air with sweet fragrance . in a corner of the garden towards the north-west stand a great bush full of blossom like winter snow amid the summer 's green : it be a juniper bush , the first that Juergen have see thus in bloom . he never forget it , nor the lime tree : the child 's soul treasured up these remembrance of beauty and fragrance to gladden the old man . from Noerre Vosborg , where the juniper blossom , the way go more easily ; for they encounter other guest who be also bind for the burial , and be ride in waggon . we traveller have to sit all together on a little box at the back of the waggon , but even this be preferable to walking , they think . so they pursue they journey in the waggon across the rugged heath . the ox which draw the vehicle slip every now and then , where a patch of fresh grass appear amid the heather . the sun shone warm , and it be wonderful to behold how in the far distance something like smoke seem to be rise ; and yet this smoke be clearer than the mist ; it be transparent , and look like ray of light rolling and dancing afar over the heath . `` that be Lokeman drive he sheep , '' say some one ; and this be enough to excite the fancy of Juergen . it seem to he as if they be now go to enter fairyland , though everything be still real . how quiet it be ! Far and wide the heath extend around they like a beautiful carpet . the heather bloom ; the juniper bush and the fresh oak sapling stand up like nosegay from the earth . a invite place for a frolic , if it be not for the number of poisonous adder of which the traveller speak , as they do also of the wolf which formerly infested the place , from which circumstance the region be still call the Wolfsborg region . the old man who guide the ox relate how , in the lifetime of he father , the horse have to sustain many a hard fight with the wild beast that be now extinct ; and how he himself , when he go out one morning to bring in the horse , have find one of they stand with its fore-feet on a wolf it have kill , after the savage beast have tear and lacerate the leg of the brave horse . the journey over the heath and the deep sand be only too quickly accomplished . they stop before the house of mourn , where they find plenty of guest within and without . Waggon after waggon stand range in a row , and horse and ox go out to crop the scanty pasture . Great sand-hills , like those at home in the North Sea , rise behind the house , and extend far and wide . how have they come here , mile into the interior of the land , and as large and high as those on the coast ? the wind have lift and carry they hither , and to they also a history be attach . psalm be sing , and a few of the old people shed tear ; beyond this , the guest be cheerful enough , as it appear to Juergen , and there be plenty to eat and drink . eel there be of the fattest , upon which brandy should be pour to bury they , as the eel breeder say ; and certainly he maxim be here carry out . Juergen go to and fro in the house . on the third day he feel quite at home , like as in the fisherman 's hut on the sand-hills where he have pass he early day . here on the heath there be certainly a unheard-of wealth , for the flower and blackberry and bilberry be to be find in plenty , so large and sweet , that when they be crush beneath the tread of the passer by , the heath be color with they red juice . here be a Hun 's Grave , and yonder another . column of smoke rise into the still air ; it be a heath-fire , he be tell , that shone so splendidly in the dark evening . now come the fourth day , and the funeral festivity be to conclude , and they be to go back from the land-dunes to the sand-dunes . `` ours be the best , '' say the old fisherman , Juergen 's foster-father ; `` these have no strength . '' and they speak of the way in which the sand-dunes have come into the country , and it seem all very intelligible . this be the explanation they give : a corpse have be find on the coast , and the peasant have bury it in the churchyard ; and from that time the sand begin to fly , and the sea break in violently . a wise man in the parish advise they to open the grave and to look if the bury man be not lie suck he thumb ; for if so , he be a man of the sea , and the sea would not rest until it have get he back . so the grave be open , and he really be find with he thumb in he mouth . so they lay he upon a cart and harness two ox before it ; and as if sting by a adder , the ox run away with the man of the sea over heath and moorland to the ocean ; and then the sand cease fly inland , but the hill that have be heap up still remain there . all this juergen hear and treasured in he memory from the happiest day of he childhood , the day of the burial feast . how glorious it be to get out into strange region , and to see strange people ! and he be to go farther still . he be not yet fourteen year old when he go out in a ship to see what the world could show he : bad weather , heavy sea , malice , and hard man -- these be he experience , for he become a ship boy . there be cold night , and bad living , and blow to be endure ; then he feel as if he noble spanish blood boil within he , and bitter wicked word seethe up to he lip ; but it be better to gulp they down , though he feel as the eel must feel when it be flay and cut up , and put into the frying-pan . `` I shall come again ! '' say a voice within he . he see the spanish coast , the native land of he parent . he even see the town where they have live in happiness and prosperity ; but he know nothing of he home or race , and he race know just as little about he . the poor ship boy be not allow to land ; but on the last day of they stay he manage to get ashore . there be several purchase to be make , and he be to carry they on board . there stand Juergen in he shabby clothes , which look as if they have be wash in the ditch and dry in the chimney : for the first time he , the inhabitant of the dune , see a great city . how lofty the house seem , and how full of people be the street ! some push this way , some that -- a perfect maelstrom of citizen and peasant , monk and soldier -- a calling and shouting , and jingle of bell-harnessed ass and mule , and the church bell chime between song and sound , hammer and knock , all go on at once . every handicraft have its home in the basement of the house or in the lane ; and the sun shone so hotly , and the air be so close , that one seem to be in a oven full of beetle , cockchafer , bee , and fly , all hum and murmur together . Juergen hardly know where he be or which way he go . then he see just in front of he the mighty portal of the cathedral ; the light be gleam in the dark aisle , and a fragrance of incense be waft towards he . even the poorest beggar venture up the step into the temple . the sailor with whom Juergen go take he way through the church ; and Juergen stand in the sanctuary . coloured picture gleam from they golden ground . on the altar stand the figure of the Virgin with the child Jesus , surround by light and flower ; priest in festive garb be chant , and choir boy , beautifully attire , swing the silver censer . what splendor , what magnificence do he see here ! it stream through he soul and overpower he ; the church and the faith of he parent surround he , and touch a chord in he soul , so that the tear overflow he eye . from the church they go to the market-place . here a quantity of provision be give he to carry . the way to the harbor be long , and , tired and overpower by various emotion , he rest for a few moment before a splendid house , with marble pillar , statue , and broad staircase . here he rest he burden against the wall . then a liveried porter come out , lift up a silver-headed cane , and drive he away -- he , the grandson of the house . but no one there know that , and he just as little as any one . and afterwards he go on board again , and there be hard word and cuff , little sleep and much work ; such be he experience . they say that it be well to suffer in youth , if age bring something to make up for it . he time of servitude on shipboard have expire , and the vessel lay once more at Ringkjoebing , in Jutland : he come ashore and go home to the sand-dunes by Hunsby ; but he foster-mother have die while he be away on he voyage . a hard winter follow that summer . snowstorm sweep over land and sea , and there be a difficulty in get about . how variously thing be distribute in the world ! here bite cold and snowstorm , while in the spanish land there be burning sunshine and oppressive heat . and yet , when here at home there come a clear frosty day , and Juergen see the swan fly in number from the sea towards the land , and across to Vosborg , it appear to he that people could breathe most freely here ; and here too be a splendid summer ! in imagination he see the heath bloom and grow purple with rich juicy berry , and see the elder tree and the lime tree at Vosborg in blossom . he determine to go there once more . spring come on , and the fishery begin . Juergen be a active assistant in this ; he have grow in the last year , and be quick at work . he be full of life , he understand how to swim , to tread water , to turn over and tumble in the flood . they often warn he to beware of the troops of dogfish , which could seize the best swimmer , and draw he down , and devour he ; but such be not Juergen 's fate . at the neighbour 's on the dune be a boy name Martin , with whom Juergen be very friendly , and the two take service in the same ship to Norway , and also go together to Holland ; and they have never have any quarrel ; but a quarrel can easily come , for when a person be hot by nature , he often use strong gesture , and that be what Juergen do one day on board when they have a quarrel about nothing at all . they be sit behind the cabin door , eat out of a delf plate which they have place between they . Juergen hold he pocket-knife in he hand , and lift it against Martin , and at the same time become ashy pale in the face , and he eye have a ugly look . Martin only say , `` ah ! ha ! you be one of that sort , who be fond of use the knife ! '' hardly be the word speak , when Juergen 's hand sink down . he answer not a syllable , but go on eating , and afterwards walk away to he work . when they be rest again , he step up to Martin , and say , `` you may hit I in the face ! I have deserve it . but I feel as if I have a pot in I that boil over . '' `` there let the thing rest , '' reply Martin ; and after that they be almost doubly as good friend as before ; and when afterwards they get back to the dune and begin tell they adventure , this be tell among the rest ; and Martin say that Juergen be certainly passionate , but a good fellow for all that . they be both young and strong , well-grown and stalwart ; but Juergen be the cleverer of the two . in Norway the peasant go into the mountain , and lead out the cattle there to pasture . on the west coast of Jutland , hut have be erect among the sand-hills ; they be build of piece of wreck , and roof with turf and heather . there be sleeping-places around the wall , and here the fisher people live and sleep during the early spring . every fisherman have he female helper , he manager , as she be call , whose business consist in bait the hook , prepare the warm beer for the fisherman when they come ashore , and get they dinner cook when they come back into the hut tire and hungry . moreover , the manager bring up the fish from the boat , cut they open , prepare they , and have generally a great deal to do . Juergen , he father , and several other fisherman and they manager inhabit the same hut ; Martin live in the next one . one of the girl , else by name , have know Juergen from childhood : they be glad to see each other , and in many thing be of the same mind ; but in outward appearance they be entirely opposite ; for he be brown , whereas she be pale and have flaxen hair , and eye as blue as the sea in sunshine . one day as they be walk together , and Juergen hold she hand in he very firmly and warmly , she say to he , `` Juergen , I have something weigh upon my heart ! let I be you manager , for you be like a brother to I , whereas Martin , who have engage I -- he and I be lover -- but you need not tell that to the rest . '' and it seem to Juergen as if the loose sand be give way under he foot . he speak not a word , but only nod he head , which signify `` yes . '' more be not require ; but suddenly he feel in he heart that he detest Martin ; and the longer he consider of this -- for he have never think of else in this way before -- the more do it become clear to he that Martin have steal from he the only be he love ; and now it be all at once plain to he , that else be the be in question . when the sea be somewhat disturbed , and the fisherman come home in they great boat , it be a sight to behold how they cross the reef . one of the man stand upright in the bow of the boat , and the other watch he , sit with the oar in they hand . outside the reef they appear to be rowing not towards the land , but back out to sea , till the man standing in the boat give they the sign that the great wave be come which be to float they across the reef ; and accordingly the boat be lift -- lift high in the air , so that its keel be see from the shore ; and in the next minute the whole boat be hide from the eye ; neither mast nor keel nor people can be see , as though the sea have devour they ; but in a few moment they emerge like a great sea animal climb up the wave , and the oar move as if the creature have leg . the second and the third reef be pass in the same manner ; and now the fisherman jump into the water ; every wave help they , and push the boat well forward , till at length they have draw it beyond the range of the breaker . a wrong order give in front of the reef -- the slightest hesitation -- and the boat must founder . `` then it would be all over with I , and Martin too ! '' this thought strike Juergen while they be out at sea , where he foster-father have be take alarmingly ill. . the fever have seize he . they be only a few oar ' stroke from the reef , and Juergen spring from he seat , and stand up in the bow . `` Father -- let I come ! '' he say ; and he eye glance towards Martin , and across the wave : but while every oar bent with the exertion of the rower , as the great wave come tower towards they , he behold the pale face of he father , and dare not obey the evil impulse that have seize he . the boat come safely across the reef to land , but the evil thought remain in he blood , and rouse up every little fiber of bitterness which have remain in he memory since he and Martin have be comrade . but he could not weave the fiber together , nor do he endeavor to do so . he feel that Martin have despoil he , and this be enough to make he detest he former friend . several of the fisherman notice this , but not Martin , who continue oblige and talkative -- the latter a little too much . Juergen 's adopt father have to keep he bed , which become he deathbed , for in the next week he die ; and now Juergen be install as heir in the little house behind the sand-hills . it be but a little house , certainly , but still it be something , and Martin have nothing of the kind . `` you will not take sea service again , Juergen ? '' observed one of the old fisherman . `` you will always stay with we , now . '' but this be not Juergen 's intention , for he be just thinking of look about he a little in the world . the eel breeder of Zjaltring have a uncle in Alt-Skage , who be a fisherman , but at the same time a prosperous merchant , who have ship upon the sea ; he be say to be a good old man , and it would not be amiss to enter he service . Alt-Skage lie in the extreme north of Jutland , as far remove from the Hunsby dune as one can travel in that country ; and this be just what please Juergen , for he do not want to remain till the wedding of Martin and else , which be to be celebrate in a few week . -lrb-B- Illustration : ELSE AFFIRMS HER PREFERENCE for MARTIN . aaaaa -rrb-B- aaa the old fisherman assert that it be foolish now to quit the neighborhood ; for that Juergen have a home , and else would probably be incline to take he rather than Martin . Juergen answer so much at random , that it be not easy to understand what he mean ; but the old man bring else to he , and she say , `` you have a home now ; that ought to be well consider . '' and Juergen thought of many thing . the sea have heavy wave , but there be heavier wave in the human heart . many thought , strong and weak , throng through Juergen 's brain ; and he say to else , `` if Martin have a house like mine , whom would you rather have ? '' `` but Martin have no house , and can not get one . '' `` but let we suppose he have one . '' `` why then I would certainly take Martin , for that be what my heart tell I ; but one can not live upon that . '' and Juergen thought of these thing all night through . something be work within he , he could not understand what it be , but he have a thought that be stronger than he love for else ; and so he go to Martin , and what he say and do there be well consider . he let the house to Martin on the most liberal term , say that he wish to go to sea again , because it please he to do so . and else kiss he on the mouth when she hear that , for she love Martin best . in the early morning Juergen purpose to start . on the evening before he departure , when it be already grow late , he feel a wish to visit Martin once more ; he start , and among the dune the old fisher meet he , who be angry at he go . the old man make joke about Martin , and declare there must be some magic about that fellow , `` of whom all the girl be so fond . '' Juergen pay no heed to this speech , but say farewell to the old man , and go on towards the house where Martin dwelt . he hear loud talk within . Martin be not alone , and this make Juergen waver in he determination , for he do not wish to encounter else ; and on second consideration , he think it better not to hear Martin thank he again , and therefore turn back . on the following morning , before break of day , he fasten he knapsack , take he wooden provision box in he hand , and go away among the sand-hills towards the coast path . the way be easier to traverse than the heavy sand road , and moreover shorter ; for he intend to go in the first instance to Zjaltring , by Bowberg , where the eel breeder live , to whom he have promise a visit . the sea lay pure and blue before he , and mussel shell and sea pebble , the plaything of he youth , crunch under he foot . while he be thus march on , he nose suddenly begin to bleed : it be a trifle incident , but little thing can have great significance . a few large drop of blood fall upon one of he sleeve . he wipe they off and stop the bleeding , and it seem to he as if this have clear and lighten he brain . in the sand the sea-eringa be bloom here and there . he break off a stalk and stick it in he hat ; he determine to be merry and of good cheer , for he be go into the wide world -- `` a little way outside the door , in front of the hay , '' as the young eel have say . `` beware of bad people , who will catch you and flay you , cut you in two , and put you in the frying-pan ! '' he repeat in he mind , and smile , for he think he should find he way through the world -- good courage be a strong weapon ! the sun already stand high when he approach the narrow entrance to Nissum Bay . he look back , and see a couple of horseman gallopp a long distance behind he , and they be accompany by other people . but this concerned he nothing . the ferry be on the opposite side of the bay . Juergen call to the ferryman ; and when the latter come over with the boat , Juergen step in ; but before they have go half-way across , the man whom he have see ride so hastily behind he , hail the ferryman , and summon he to return in the name of the law . Juergen do not understand the reason of this , but he think it would be best to turn back , and therefore himself take a oar and return . the moment the boat touch the shore , the man spring on board , and , before he be aware , they have bind he hand with a rope . `` thy wicked deed will cost thee thy life , '' they say . `` it be well that we catch thee . '' he be accuse of nothing less than murder . Martin have be find dead , with a knife thrust through he neck . one of the fisherman have -lrb-B- late on the previous evening -rrb-B- meet Juergen go towards Martin 's house ; and this be not the first time Juergen have raise he knife against Martin -- so they know that he be the murderer . the town in which the prison be build be a long way off , and the wind be contrary for go there ; but not half a hour would be require to get across the bay , and a quarter of a hour would bring they from thence to Noerre Vosborg , a great castle with wall and ditch . one of Juergen 's captor be a fisherman , a brother of the keeper of the castle ; and he declare it might be manage that Juergen should for the present be put into the dungeon at Vosborg , where Long Martha the gipsy have be shut up till she execution . no attention be pay to the defense make by Juergen ; the few drop of blood upon he shirt-sleeve bear heavy witness against he . but Juergen be conscious of innocence ; and as there be no chance of immediately right himself , he submit to he fate . the party land just at the spot where Sir Bugge 's castle have stand and where Juergen have walk with he foster-parents after the burial feast , during the four happiest day of he childhood . he be lead by the old path over the meadow to Vosborg ; and again the elder blossom and the lofty linden smell sweet , and it seem but yesterday that he have leave the spot . in the two wing of the castle a staircase lead down to a spot below the entrance , and from thence there be access to a low vaulted cellar . here long Martha have be imprison , and hence she have be lead away to the scaffold . she have eat the heart of five child , and have be under the delusion that if she could obtain two more , she would be able to fly and to make herself invisible . in the midst of the cellar roof be a little narrow air-hole , but no window . the bloom linden could not waft a breath of comforting fragrance into that abode , where all be dark and mouldy . only a rough bench stand in the prison ; but `` a good conscience be a soft pillow , '' and consequently Juergen could sleep well . the thick oaken door be lock , and secure on the outside by a iron bar ; but the goblin of superstition can creep through a keyhole into the baron 's castle just as into the fisherman 's hut ; and wherefore should he not creep in here , where Juergen sit thinking of Long Martha and she evil deed ? she last thought on the night before she execution have fill this space ; and all the magic come into Juergen 's mind which tradition assert to have be practice there in the old time , when Sir Schwanwedel dwelt there . all this pass through Juergen 's mind , and make he shudder ; but a sunbeam -- a refreshing thought from without -- penetrate he heart even here ; it be the remembrance of the bloom elder and the fragrant lime tree . he be not leave there long . they carry he off to the town of Ringkjoebing , where he imprisonment be just as hard . those time be not like ours . hard measure be deal out to the `` common '' people ; and it be just after the day when farm be convert into knight ' estate , on which occasion coachman and servant be often make magistrate , and have it in they power to sentence a poor man , for a small offence , to lose he property and to corporal punishment . judge of this kind be still to be find ; and in Jutland , far from the capital and from the enlighten well-meaning head of the government , the law be still sometimes very loosely administer ; and the smallest grievance that Juergen have to expect be that he case would be protracted . Cold and cheerless be he abode -- and when would this state of thing end ? he have innocently sink into misfortune and sorrow -- that be he fate . he have leisure now to ponder on the difference of fortune on earth , and to wonder why this fate have be allot to he ; and he feel sure that the question would be answer in the next life -- the existence that await we when this be over . this faith have grow strong in he in the poor fisherman 's hut ; that which have never shine into he father 's mind , in all the richness and sunshine of Spain , be vouchsafe as a light of comfort in he poverty and distress -- a sign of mercy from God that never deceive . the spring storm begin to blow . the rolling and moaning of the North Sea could be hear for mile inland when the wind be lull ; for then it sound like the rush of a thousand waggon over a hard road with a mine beneath . Juergen , in he prison , hear these sound , and it be a relief to he . no melody could have appeal so directly to he heart as do these sound of the sea -- the rolling sea , the boundless sea , on which a man can be bear across the world before the wind , carry he own house with he wherever he be drive , just as the snail carry its home even into a strange land . how he listen to the deep moaning , and how the thought arise in he -- `` Free ! free ! how happy to be free , even without shoe and in ragged clothes ! '' sometimes , when such thought cross he mind , the fiery nature rise within he , and he beat the wall with he clenched fist . week , month , a whole year have go by , when a vagabond -- Niels , the thief , call also the horse couper -- be arrest ; and now the better time come , and it be see what wrong Juergen have endure . in the neighborhood of Ringkjoebing , at a beer-house , Niels , the thief , have meet Martin on the afternoon before Juergen 's departure from home and before the murder . a few glass be drunk -- not enough to cloud any one 's brain , but yet enough to loosen Martin 's tongue ; and he begin to boast , and to say that he have obtain a house , and intend to marry ; and when Niels ask where he intend to get the money , Martin shake he pocket proudly , and say , `` the money be there , where it ought to be . '' this boast cost he he life ; for when he go home , Niels go after he , and thrust a knife through he throat , to rob the murder man of the expect gold , which do not exist . this be circumstantially explain ; but for we it be enough to know that Juergen be set at liberty . but what amend do he get for have be imprison a whole year , and shut out from all communion with man ? they tell he he be fortunate in be prove innocent , and that he might go . the burgomaster give he two dollar for travel expense , and many citizen offer he provision and beer -- there be still good man , not all `` grind and flay . '' but the best of all be , that the merchant Broenne of Skjagen , the same into whose service Juergen intend to go a year since , be just at that time on business in the town of Ringkjoebing . Broenne hear the whole story ; and the man have a good heart , and understand what Juergen must have feel and suffer . he therefore make up he mind to make it up to the poor lad , and convince he that there be still kind folk in the world . so Juergen go forth from the prison as if to Paradise , to find freedom , affection , and trust . he be to travel this road now ; for no goblet of life be all bitterness : no good man would pour out such measure to he fellow man , and how should he do it , who be love itself ? `` let all that be bury and forget , '' say Broenne the merchant . `` let we draw a thick line through last year ; and we will even burn the calendar . and in two day we 'll start for dear , friendly , peaceful Skjagen . they call Skjagen a out-of-the-way corner ; but it be a good warm chimney-corner , and its window open towards every part of the world . '' that be a journey ! -- it be like take fresh breath -- out of the cold dungeon air into the warm sunshine ! the heath stand bloom in its greatest pride , and the herd-boy sit on the Hun 's Grave and blow he pipe , which he have carve for himself out of the sheep 's bone . Fata Morgana , the beautiful aerial phenomenon of the desert , show itself with hang garden and sway forest , and the wonderful cloud phenomenon , call here the `` lokeman drive he flock , '' be see likewise . up through the land of the Wendels , up towards Skjagen , they go , from whence the man with the long beard -lrb-B- the Longobardi , or Lombards -rrb-B- have emigrate in the day when , in the reign of King Snio , all the child and the old people be to have be kill , till the noble Dame Gambaruk propose that the young people have better emigrate . all this be know to Juergen -- thus much knowledge he have ; and even if he do not know the land of the Lombards beyond the high Alps , he have a idea how it must be there , for in he boyhood he have be in the south , in Spain . he think of the southern fruit pile up there ; of the red pomegranate blossom ; of the humming , murmur , and toiling in the great beehive of a city he have see ; but , after all , home be best ; and Juergen 's home be Denmark . -lrb-B- Illustration : JUeRGEN be BETTER FORTUNE . aaaaa -rrb-B- aaa at length they reach `` Wendelskajn , '' as Skjagen be call in the old norwegian and icelandic writings . then already old Skjagen , with the western and eastern town , extend for mile , with sand-hills and arable land , as far as the lighthouse near the `` Skjagenzweig . '' then , as now , the house be strew among the wind-raised sand-hills -- a desert where the wind sport with the sand , and where the voice of the seaman and the wild swan strike harshly on the ear . in the south-west , a mile from the sea , lie Old Skjagen ; and here dwelt merchant Broenne , and here Juergen be henceforth to dwell . the great house be paint with tar ; the smaller building have each a overturn boat for a roof ; the pig-sty have be put together of piece of wreck . there be no fence here , for indeed there be nothing to fence in ; but long row of fish be hang upon line , one above the other , to dry in the wind . the whole coast be strew with spoilt herring ; for there be so many of those fish , that a net be scarcely throw into the sea before they be catch by cartload ; there be so many , that often they be throw back into the sea , or leave to lie on the shore . the old man 's wife and daughter , and he servant too , come rejoicingly to meet he . there be a great pressing of hand , and talk , and question . and the daughter , what a lovely face and bright eye she have ! the interior of the house be roomy and comfortable . fritter that a king would have look upon as a dainty dish , be place on the table ; and there be wine from the vineyard of Skjagen -- that be , the sea ; for there the grape come ashore ready press and prepare in barrel and in bottle . when the mother and daughter hear who Juergen be , and how innocently he have suffer , they look at he in a still more friendly way ; and the eye of the charming Clara be the friendliest of all . Juergen find a happy home in Old Skjagen . it do he heart good ; and he heart have be sorely try , and have drunk the bitter goblet of love , which soften or harden accord to circumstance . Juergen 's heart be still soft -- it be young , and there be still room in it ; and therefore it be well that Mistress Clara be go in three week in she father 's ship to Christiansand , in Norway , to visit a aunt , and to stay there the whole winter . on the Sunday before she departure they all go to church , to the holy Communion . the church be large and handsome , and have be build century before by Scotchmen and Hollanders ; it lay at a little distance from the town . it be certainly somewhat ruinous , and the road to it be heavy , through the deep sand ; but the people gladly go through the difficulty to get to the house of God , to sing psalm and hear the sermon . the sand have heap itself up round the wall of the church ; but the grave be keep free from it . it be the largest church north of the Limfjord . the Virgin Mary , with the golden crown on she head and the child Jesus in she arm , stand life-like upon the altar ; the holy Apostles have be carve in the choir ; and on the wall hang portrait of the old burgomaster and councillor of Skjagen ; the pulpit be of carve work . the sun shone brightly into the church , and its radiance fall on the polished brass chandelier , and on the little ship that hang from the vaulted roof . Juergen feel as if overcome by a holy , childlike feeling , like that which possess he when , as a boy , he have stand in the splendid spanish cathedral ; but here the feeling be different , for he feel conscious of be one of the congregation . after the sermon follow the holy Communion . he partook of the bread and wine , and it happen that he kneel beside Mistress Clara ; but he thought be so fix upon Heaven and the holy service , that he do not notice he neighbor until he rise from he knee , and then he see tear roll down she cheek . two day later she leave Skjagen and go to Norway . he stay behind , and make himself useful in the house and in the business . he go out fishing , and at that time fish be more plentiful and larger than now . every Sunday when he sit in the church , and he eye rest on the statue of the Virgin on the altar , he glance rest for a time on the spot where Mistress Clara have kneel beside he , and he think of she , how hearty and kind she have be to he . and so the autumn and the winter time pass away . there be wealth here , and a real family life ; even down to the domestic animal , who be all well keep . the kitchen glitter with copper and tin and white plate , and from the roof hang ham and beef , and winter store in plenty . all this be still to be see in many rich farm of the west coast of Jutland : plenty to eat and drink , clean decorate room , clever head , happy temper , and hospitality prevail there as in a arab tent . never since the famous burial feast have Juergen spend such a happy time ; and yet Mistress Clara be absent , except in the thought and memory of all . in April a ship be to start for Norway , and Juergen be to sail in it . he be full of life and spirit , and look so stout and jovial that Dame Broenne declare it do she good to see he . `` and it be a pleasure to see you too , old wife , '' say the old merchant . `` Juergen have bring life into we winter evening , and into you too , mother . you look younger this year , and you seem well and bonny . but then you be once the prettiest girl in Wiborg , and that be say a great deal , for I have always find the Wiborg girl the prettiest of any . '' Juergen say nothing to this , but he think of a certain maiden of Skjagen ; and he sail to visit that maiden , for the ship steer to Christiansand , in Norway , and a favor wind bear it rapidly to that town . one morning merchant Broenne go out to the lighthouse that stand far away from Old Skjagen : the coal fire have long go out , and the sun be already high when he mount the tower . the sand-banks extend under the water a whole mile from the shore . outside these bank many ship be see that day ; and with the help of he telescope the old man think he descry he own vessel , the `` Karen Broenne . '' yes , surely there she be ; and the ship be sail up with Juergen and Clara on board . the church and the lighthouse appear to they as a heron and a swan rise from the blue water . Clara sit on deck , and see the sand-hills gradually loom forth : if the wind hold she might reach she home in about a hour -- so near be they to home and its joy -- so near be they to death and its terror . for a plank in the ship give way , and the water rush in . the crew fly to the pump , and attempt to stop the leak . a signal of distress be hoist ; but they be still a full mile from the shore . fishing boat be in sight , but they be still far distant . the wind blow shoreward , and the tide be in they favor too ; but all be insufficient , for the ship sink . Juergen throw he right arm about Clara , and press she close to he . with what a look she gaze in he face ! as he throw himself in God 's name into the water with she , she utter a cry ; but still she feel safe , certain that he would not let she sink . and now , in the hour of terror and danger , Juergen experience what the old song tell : `` and write it stand , how the brave king 's son embrace the bride he valor have win . '' how rejoice he feel that he be a good swimmer ! he work he way onward with he foot and with one hand , while with the other he tightly hold the young girl . he rest upon the wave , he tread the water , he practice all the art he know , so as to reserve strength enough to reach the shore . he hear how Clara utter a sigh , and feel a convulsive shudder pass through she , and he press she to he closer than ever . now and then a wave roll over she ; and he be still a few cable ' length from the land , when help come in the shape of a approach boat . but under the water -- he could see it clearly -- stand a white form gaze at he : a wave lift he up , and the form approach he : he feel a shock , and it grow dark , and everything vanish from he gaze . on the sand-reef lay the wreck of a ship , the sea wash over it ; the white figure-head lean against a anchor , the sharp iron extend just to the surface . Juergen have come in contact with this , and the tide have drive he against it with double force . he sink down fainting with he load ; but the next wave lift he and the young girl aloft again . the fisherman grasp they , and lift they into the boat . the blood stream down over Juergen 's face ; he seem dead , but he still clutch the girl so tightly that they be oblige to loosen she by force from he grasp . and Clara lay pale and lifeless in the boat , that now make for the shore . all means be try to restore Clara to life ; but she be dead ! for some time he have be swim onward with a corpse , and have exert himself to exhaustion for one who be dead . Juergen be still breathing . the fisherman carry he into the nearest house upon the sand-hills . a kind of surgeon who live there , and be at the same time a smith and a general dealer , bind up Juergen 's wound in a temporary way , till a physician could be get next day from the nearest town . the brain of the sick man be affect . in delirium he utter wild cry ; but on the third day he lay quiet and exhaust on he couch , and he life seem to hang by a thread , and the physician say it would be best if this string snap . `` let we pray that God may take he to himself ; he will never be a sane man again ! '' but life would not depart from he -- the thread would not snap ; but the thread of memory break : the thread of all he mental power have be cut through ; and , what be most terrible , a body remain -- a living healthy body -- that wander about like a spectre . Juergen remain in the house of the merchant Broenne . `` he contract he illness in he endeavor to save we child , '' say the old man , `` and now he be we son . '' people call Juergen imbecile ; but that be not the right expression . he be like a instrument , in which the string be loose and will sound no more ; only at time for a few minute they regain they power , and then they sound anew : old melody be hear , snatch of song ; picture unrolled themselves , and then disappear again in the mist , and once more he sit stare before he , without a thought . we may believe that he do not suffer , but he dark eye lose they brightness , and look only like black clouded glass . `` Poor imbecile juergen ! '' say the people . he it be whose life be to have be so pleasant that it would be `` presumption and pride '' to expect or believe in a higher existence hereafter . all he great mental faculty have be lose ; only hard day , pain , and disappointment have be he lot . he be like a rare plant tear from its native soil , and throw upon the sand , to wither there . and be the image , fashion in God 's likeness , to have no better destination ? be it to be merely the sport of chance ? no. . the all-loving God would certainly repay he in the life to come , for what he have suffer and lose here . `` the Lord be good to all ; and he mercy be over all he work . '' these word from the Psalms of David , the old pious wife of the merchant repeat in patience and hope , and the prayer of she heart be that Juergen might soon be summon to enter into the life eternal . in the churchyard where the sand blow across the wall , Clara lay bury . it seem as if Juergen know nothing of this -- it do not come within the compass of he thought , which comprise only fragment of a past time . every Sunday he go with the old people to church , and sit silent there with vacant gaze . one day , while the PsalmsS be be sing , he utter a deep sigh , and he eye gleam : they be fix upon the altar , upon the place where he have kneel with he friend who be dead . he utter she name , and become pale as death , and tear roll over he cheek . they lead he out of the church ; and he say to the bystander that he be well , and have never be ill : he , the heavily afflict , the waif cast forth upon the world , remember nothing of he suffering . and the Lord we Creator be wise and full of loving-kindness -- who can doubt it ? in Spain , where the warm breeze blow over the Moorish cupola , among the orange tree and laurel , where song and the sound of castagnette be always hear , sit in the sumptuous house a childish old man , the richest merchant in the place , while child march in procession through the street , with wave flag and light taper . how much of he wealth would the old man not have give to be able to press he child to he heart ! he daughter , or she child , that have perhaps never see the light in this world , far less a Paradise . `` Poor child ! '' yes , poor child -- a child still , and yet more than thirty year old ; for to that age Juergen have attain in Old Skjagen . the drift sand have cover the grave in the churchyard quite up to the wall of the church ; but yet the dead must be bury among they relation and love one who have go before they . merchant Broenne and he wife now rest here with they child , under the white sand . it be spring-time , the season of storm . the sand-hills whirl up in cloud , and the sea run high , and flock of bird fly like cloud in the storm , shriek across the dune ; and shipwreck follow shipwreck on the reef of `` Skjagenzweig '' from towards the Hunsby dune . one evening Juergen be sit alone in the room . suddenly he mind seem to become clearer , and a feeling of unrest come upon he , which in he younger year have often drive he forth upon the heath and the sand-hills . `` home ! home ! '' he exclaim . no one hear he . he go out of the house towards the dune . sand and stone blow into he face and whirl around he . he go on farther and farther , towards the church : the sand lay high around the wall , half over the window ; but the heap have be shovel away from the door , and the entrance be free and easy to open ; and Juergen go into the church . the storm go howl over the town of Skjagen . within the memory of man the sea have not run so high -- a terrible tempest ! but Juergen be in the temple of God , and while black night reign without , a light arise in he soul , a light that be never to be extinguish ; he feel the heavy stone which seem to weigh upon he head burst asunder . he think he hear the sound of the organ , but it be the storm and the moaning of the sea . he sit down on one of the seat ; and behold , the candle be light up one by one ; a richness be display such as he have only see in the church in Spain ; and all the picture of the old councillor be endue with life , and step forth from the wall against which they have stand for century , and seat themselves in the entrance of the church . the gate and door fly open , and in come all the dead people , festively clad , and sit down to the sound of beautiful music , and fill the seat in the church . then the psalm tune roll forth like a sound sea ; and he old foster-parents from the Hunsby dune be here , and the old merchant Broenne and he wife ; and at they side , close to Juergen , sit they friendly , lovely daughter Clara , who give she hand to Juergen , and they both go to the altar , where they have once kneel together , and the priest join they hand and join they together for life . then the sound of music be hear again , wonderful , like a child 's voice full of joy and expectation , and it swell on to a organ 's sound , to a tempest of full , noble sound , lovely and elevate to hear , and yet strong enough to burst the stone tomb . and the little ship that hang down from the roof of the choir come down , and become wonderfully large and beautiful , with silken sail and golden yard , `` and every rope work through with silk , '' as the old song say . the married pair go on board , and the whole congregation with they , for there be room and joyfulness for all . and the wall and arch of the church bloom like the juniper and the fragrant lime tree , and the leaf and branch wave and distribute coolness ; then they bent and parted , and the ship sail through the midst of they , through the sea , and through the air ; and every church taper become a star , and the wind sing a psalm tune , and all sing with the wind : `` in love , to glory -- no life shall be lose . Full of blessedness and joy . Hallelujah ! '' and these word be the last that Juergen speak in this world . the thread snap that bind the immortal soul , and nothing but a dead body lay in the dark church , around which the storm rage , cover it with loose sand . the next morning be Sunday , and the congregation and they pastor go forth to the service . the road to church have be heavy ; the sand make the way almost impassable ; and now , when they at last reach they goal , a great hill of sand be pile up before the entrance , and the church itself be bury . the priest speak a short prayer , and say that God have close the door of this house , and the congregation must go and build a new one for he elsewhere . so they sing a psalm under the open sky , and go back to they home . Juergen be nowhere to be find in the town of Skjagen , or in the dune , however much they seek for he . it be think that the wave , which have roll far up on the sand , have sweep he away . he body lay bury in a great sepulchre , in the church itself . in the storm the Lord 's hand have throw a handful of earth on he grave ; and the heavy mound of sand lay upon it , and lie there to this day . the whirling sand have cover the high vaulted passage ; whitethorn and wild rise tree grow over the church , over which the wanderer now walk ; while the tower , stand forth like a gigantic tombstone over a grave , be to be see for mile around : no king have a more splendid tombstone . no one disturb the rest of the dead ; no one know of this , and we be the first who know of this grave -- the storm sing the tale to I among the sand-hills . the bishop of BOeRGLUM and he warrior . we scene be in Northern Jutland , in the so call `` wild moor . '' we hear what be call the `` wester-wow-wow '' -- the peculiar roar of the North Sea as it break against the western coast of Jutland . it roll and thunder with a sound that penetrate for mile into the land ; and we be quite near the roaring . before we rise a great mound of sand -- a mountain we have long see , and towards which we be wend we way , drive slowly along through the deep sand . on this mountain of sand be a lofty old building -- the convent of Boerglum . in one of its wing -lrb-B- the larger one -rrb-B- there be still a church . and at this convent we now arrive in the late evening hour ; but the weather be clear in the bright June night around we . the eye can range far , far over field and moor to the bay of Aalborg , over heath and meadow , and far across the dark blue sea . now we be there , and roll past between barn and other farm building ; and at the left of the gate we turn aside to the old Castle Farm , where the lime tree stand in line along the wall , and , sheltered from the wind and weather , grow so luxuriously that they twig and leave almost conceal the window . we mount the wind staircase of stone , and march through the long passage under the heavy roof-beams . the wind moan very strangely here , both within and without . it be hardly know how , but people say -- yes , people say a great many thing when they be frightened or want to frighten other -- they say that the old dead choir-men glide silently past we into the church , where mass be sing . they can be hear in the rush of the storm , and they singing bring up strange thought in the hearer -- thought of the old time into which we be carry back . on the coast a ship be strand ; and the bishop 's warrior be there , and spare not those whom the sea have spare . the sea wash away the blood that have flow from cloven skull . the strand goods belong to the bishop , and there be a store of goods here . the sea cast up tub and barrel fill with costly wine for the convent cellar ; and in the convent be already good store of beer and mead . there be plenty in the kitchen -- dead game and poultry , ham and sausage ; and fat fish swim in the pond without . the Bishop of Boerglum be a mighty lord . he have great possession , but still he long for more -- everything must bow before the mighty Olaf Glob . he rich cousin at Thyland be dead , and he widow be to have the rich inheritance . but how come it that one relation be always harder towards another than even stranger would be ? the widow 's husband have possess all Thyland , with the exception of the Church property . she son be not at home . in he boyhood he have already start on a journey , for he desire be to see foreign land and strange people . for year there have be no news of he . perhaps he have long be lay in the grave , and would never come back to he home to rule where he mother then rule . `` what have a woman to do with rule ? '' say the bishop . he summon the widow before a court ; but what do he gain thereby ? the widow have never be disobedient to the law , and be strong in she just rights . Bishop Olaf , of Boerglum , what dost thou purpose ? what writest thou on yonder smooth parchment , seal it with thy seal , and intrust it to the horseman and servant , who ride away -- far away -- to the city of the Pope ? it be the time of fall leaf and of strand ship , and soon icy winter will come . twice have icy winter return before the bishop welcome the horseman and servant back to they home . they come from Rome with a papal decree -- a ban , or bull , against the widow who have dare to offend the pious bishop . `` curse be she , and all that belong to she . let she be expel from the congregation and the Church . let no man stretch forth a help hand to she , and let friend and relation avoid she as a plague and a pestilence ! '' `` what will not bend must break , '' say the Bishop of Boerglum . and all forsake the widow ; but she hold fast to she God . he be she helper and defender . one servant only -- a old maid -- remain faithful to she ; and , with the old servant , the widow herself follow the plough ; and the crop grow , though the land have be curse by the Pope and the bishop . `` Thou child of hell , I will yet carry out my purpose ! '' cry the Bishop of Boerglum . `` now will I lay the hand of the Pope upon thee , to summon thee before the tribunal that shall condemn thee ! '' -lrb-B- Illustration : JENS GLOB meet he mother . aaaaa -rrb-B- aaa then do the widow yoke the two last ox that remain to she to a waggon , and mount upon the waggon , with she old servant , and travel away across the heath out of the danish land . as a stranger she come into a foreign country , where a strange tongue be speak and where new custom prevail . Farther and farther she journey , to where green hill rise into mountain , and the vine clothes they side . strange merchant drive by she , and they look anxiously after they waggon laden with merchandise . they fear a attack from the armed follower of the robber-knights . the two poor woman , in they humble vehicle draw by two black ox , travel fearlessly through the dangerous sunken road and through the darksome forest . and now they be in Franconia . and there meet they a stalwart knight , with a train of twelve armed follower . he pause , gaze at the strange vehicle , and question the woman as to the goal of they journey and the place whence they come . then one of they mention Thyland , in Denmark , and speak of she sorrow -- of she woe -- which be soon to cease ; for so Divine Providence have will it . for the stranger knight be the widow 's son . he seize she hand , he embrace she , and the mother weep . for year she have not be able to weep , but have only bite she lip till the blood start . it be the time of fall leaf and of strand ship , and soon will icy winter come . the sea roll wine-tubs to the shore for the bishop 's cellar . in the kitchen the deer roasted on the spit before the fire . at Boerglum it be warm and cheerful in the heated room , while cold winter rage without , when a piece of news be bring to the bishop : `` Jens Glob , of Thyland , have come back , and he mother with he . '' Jens Glob lay a complaint against the bishop , and summon he before the temporal and the spiritual court . `` that will avail he little , '' say the bishop . `` best leave off thy effort , knight Jens . '' again it be the time of fall leaf , of strand ship -- icy winter come again , and the `` white bee '' be swarm , and sting the traveller 's face till they melt . `` keen weather to-day , '' say the people , as they step in . Jens Glob stand so deeply wrap in thought that he singe the skirt of he wide garment . `` Thou Boerglum bishop , '' he exclaim , `` I shall subdue thee after all ! under the shield of the Pope , the law can not reach thee ; but Jens Glob shall reach thee ! '' then he write a letter to he brother-in-law , Olaf Hase , in Sallingland , and pray that knight to meet he on Christmas Eve , at mass , in the church at Widberg . the bishop himself be to read the mass , and consequently will journey from Boerglum to Thyland ; and this be know to Jens Glob . Moorland and meadow be cover with ice and snow . the marsh will bear horse and rider , the bishop with he priest , and armed man . they ride the shortest way , through the wave reed , where the wind moan sadly . blow thy brazen trumpet , thou trumpeter clothe in foxskin ! it sound merrily in the clear air . so they ride on over heath and moorland -- over what be the garden of Fata Morgana in the hot summer , though now icy , like all the country -- towards the church of Widberg . the wind be blow he trumpet too -- blow it harder and harder . he blow up a storm -- a terrible storm -- that increase more and more . towards the church they ride , as fast as they may through the storm . the church stand firm , but the storm career on over field and moorland , over land and sea . Boerglum 's bishop reach the church ; but Olaf Hase will scarce do so , hard as he may ride . he journey with he warrior on the farther side of the bay , to help Jens Glob , now that the bishop be to be summon before the judgment seat of the Highest . the church be the judgment hall ; the altar be the council table . the light burn clear in the heavy brass candelabrum . the storm read out the accusation and the sentence , roam in the air over moor and heath , and over the rolling water . no ferry-boat can sail over the bay in such weather as this . Olaf Hase make halt at Ottesworde . there he dismiss he warrior , present they with they horse and harness , and give they leave to ride home and greet he wife . he intend to risk he life alone in the roaring water ; but they be to bear witness for he that it be not he fault if Jens Glob stand without reinforcement in the church at Widberg . the faithful warrior will not leave he , but follow he out into the deep water . ten of they be carry away ; but Olaf Hase and two of the youngest man reach the farther side . they have still four mile to ride . it be past midnight . it be Christmas . the wind have abate . the church be light up ; the gleaming radiance shine through the window-frames , and pour out over meadow and heath . the mass have long be finish , silence reign in the church , and the wax be hear drop from the candle to the stone pavement . and now Olaf Hase arrive . in the forecourt Jens Glob greet he kindly , and say , `` I have just make a agreement with the bishop . '' `` Sayest thou so ? '' reply Olaf Hase . `` then neither thou nor the bishop shall quit this church alive . '' and the sword leap from the scabbard , and Olaf Hase deal a blow that make the panel of the church-door , which jen Glob hastily close between they , fly in fragment . `` hold , brother ! first hear what the agreement be that I make . I have slay the bishop and he warrior and priest . they will have no word more to say in the matter , nor will I speak again of all the wrong that my mother have endure . '' the long wick of the altar light glimmer red ; but there be a redder gleam upon the pavement , where the bishop lie with cloven skull , and he dead warrior around he , in the quiet of the holy Christmas night . and four day afterwards the bell toll for a funeral in the convent of Boerglum . the murder bishop and the slay warrior and priest be display under a black canopy , surround by candelabrum deck with crape . there lie the dead man , in the black cloak work with silver ; the crosier in the powerless hand that be once so mighty . the incense rise in cloud , and the monk chant the funeral hymn . it sound like a wail -- it sound like a sentence of wrath and condemnation that must be hear far over the land , carry by the wind -- sing by the wind -- the wail that sometimes be silent , but never die ; for ever again it rise in song , sing even into we own time this legend of the Bishop of Boerglum and he hard nephew . it be hear in the dark night by the frightened husbandman , drive by in the heavy sandy road past the convent of Boerglum . it be hear by the sleepless listener in the thickly-walled room at Boerglum . and not only to the ear of superstition be the sighing and the tread of hurrying foot audible in the long echo passage lead to the convent-door that have long be lock . the door still seem to open , and the light seem to flame in the brazen candlestick ; the fragrance of incense arise ; the church gleam in its ancient splendor ; and the monk sing and say the mass over the slay bishop , who lie there in the black silver-embroidered mantle , with the crozier in he powerless hand ; and on he pale proud forehead gleam the red wound like fire , and there burn the worldly mind and the wicked thought . sink down into he grave -- into oblivion -- ye terrible shape of the time of old ! Hark to the rage of the angry wind , sound above the rolling sea . a storm approach without , call aloud for human life . the sea have not put on a new mind with the new time . this night it be a horrible pit to devour up life , and to-morrow , perhaps , it may be a glassy mirror -- even as in the old time that we have bury . sleep sweetly , if thou canst sleep ! now it be morning . the new time fling sunshine into the room . the wind still keep up mightily . a wreck be announce -- as in the old time . during the night , down yonder by Loekken , the little fishing village with the red-tiled roof -- we can see it up here from the window -- a ship have come ashore . it have strike , and be fast imbed in the sand ; but the rocket apparatus have throw a rope on board , and form a bridge from the wreck to the mainland ; and all on board be save , and reach the land , and be wrap in warm blanket ; and to-day they be invite to the farm at the convent of Boerglum . in comfortable room they encounter hospitality and friendly face . they be address in the language of they country , and the piano sound for they with melody of they native land ; and before these have die away , and the chord have be strike , the wire of thought , that reach to the land of the sufferer , announce that they be rescue . then they anxiety be dispel ; and at even they join in the dance at the feast give in the great hall at Boerglum . waltz and styrian dance be give , and danish popular song , and melody of foreign land in these modern time . bless be thou , new time ! speak thou of summer and of purer gale ! send thy sunbeam gleam into we heart and thought ! on thy glowing canvas let they be paint -- the dark legend of the rough hard time that be past !