A STORY of OLD JAPAN . Japanese Writer Long year ago in old Japan there live in the Province of Echigo , a very remote part of Japan even in these day , a man and he wife . when this story begin they have be marry for some year and be bless with one little daughter . she be the joy and pride of both they life , and in she they store a endless source of happiness for they old age . what golden letter day in they memory be these that have mark she grow up from babyhood ; the visit to the temple when she be just thirty day old , she proud mother carry she , robe in ceremonial kimono , to be put under the patronage of the family 's household god ; then she first doll festival , when she parent give she a set of doll ' and they miniature belongings , to be add to as year succeed year ; and perhaps the most important occasion of all , on she third birthday , when she first OBI -lrb-B- broad brocade sash -rrb-B- of scarlet and gold be tie round she small waist , a sign that she have cross the threshold of girlhood and leave infancy behind . now that she be seven year of age , and have learn to talk and to wait upon she parent in those several little way so dear to the heart of fond parent , they cup of happiness seem full . there could not be find in the whole of the Island Empire a happier little family . one day there be much excitement in the home , for the father have be suddenly summon to the capital on business . in these day of railway and jinricksha and other rapid mode of travel , it be difficult to realize what such a journey as that from Matsuyama to Kyoto mean . the road be rough and bad , and ordinary people have to walk every step of the way , whether the distance be one hundred or several hundred mile . indeed , in those day it be as great a undertaking to go up to the capital as it be for a japanese to make a voyage to Europe now . so the wife be very anxious while she help she husband get ready for the long journey , know what a arduous task lay before he . vainly she wish that she could accompany he , but the distance be too great for the mother and child to go , and besides that , it be the wife 's duty to take care of the home . all be ready at last , and the husband stand in the porch with he little family round he . `` do not be anxious , I will come back soon , '' say the man . `` while I be away take care of everything , and especially of we little daughter . '' `` yes . we shall be all right -- but you -- you must take care of yourself and delay not a day in come back to we , '' say the wife , while the tear fall like rain from she eye . the little girl be the only one to smile , for she be ignorant of the sorrow of parting , and do not know that go to the capital be at all different from walk to the next village , which she father do very often . she run to he side , and catch hold of he long sleeve to keep he a moment . `` Father , I will be very good while I be wait for you to come back , so please bring I a present . '' as the father turn to take a last look at he weep wife and smile , eager child , he feel as if some one be pull he back by the hair , so hard be it for he to leave they behind , for they have never be separate before . but he know that he must go , for the call be imperative . with a great effort he cease to think , and resolutely turn away he go quickly down the little garden and out through the gate . he wife , catch up the child in she arm , run as far as the gate , and watch he as he go down the road between the pine till he be lose in the haze of the distance and all she could see be he quaint peak hat , and at last that vanish too . `` now father have go , you and I must take care of everything till he come back , '' say the mother , as she make she way back to the house . `` yes , I will be very good , '' say the child , nod she head , `` and when father come home please tell he how good I have be , and then perhaps he will give I a present . '' `` Father be sure to bring you something that you want very much . I know , for I ask he to bring you a doll . you must think of father every day , and pray for a safe journey till he come back . '' `` O , yes , when he come home again how happy I shall be , '' say the child , clap she hand , and she face grow bright with joy at the glad thought . it seem to the mother as she look at the child 's face that she love for she grow deeper and deeper . then she set to work to make the winter clothes for the three of they . she set up she simple wooden spinning-wheel and spin the thread before she begin to weave the stuff . in the interval of she work she direct the little girl 's game and teach she to read the old story of she country . thus do the wife find consolation in work during the lonely day of she husband 's absence . while the time be thus slip quickly by in the quiet home , the husband finish he business and return . it would have be difficult for any one who do not know the man well to recognize he . he have travel day after day , expose to all weather , for about a month altogether , and be sunburnt to bronze , but he fond wife and child know he at a glance , and fly to meet he from either side , each catch hold of one of he sleeve in they eager greet . both the man and he wife rejoice to find each other well . it seem a very long time to all till -- the mother and child help -- he straw sandal be untied , he large umbrella hat take off , and he be again in they midst in the old familiar sitting-room that have be so empty while he be away . as soon as they have sit down on the white mat , the father open a bamboo basket that he have bring in with he , and take out a beautiful doll and a lacquer box full of cake . `` here , '' he say to the little girl , `` be a present for you . it be a prize for take care of mother and the house so well while I be away . '' `` thank you , '' say the child , as she bow she head to the ground , and then put out she hand just like a little maple leaf with its eager wide-spread finger to take the doll and the box , both of which , come from the capital , be prettier than anything she have ever see . no word can tell how delighted the little girl be -- she face seem as if it would melt with joy , and she have no eye and no thought for anything else . again the husband dive into the basket , and bring out this time a square wooden box , carefully tie up with red and white string , and hand it to he wife , say : `` and this be for you . '' the wife take the box , and open it carefully take out a metal disk with a handle attach . one side be bright and shine like a crystal , and the other be cover with raise figure of pine-trees and stork , which have be carve out of its smooth surface in lifelike reality . never have she see such a thing in she life , for she have be bear and breed in the rural province of Echigo . she gaze into the shine disk , and look up with surprise and wonder picture on she face , she say : `` I see somebody look at I in this round thing ! what be it that you have give I '' the husband laugh and say : `` why , it be you own face that you see . what I have bring you be call a mirror , and whoever look into its clear surface can see they own form reflect there . although there be none to be find in this out of the way place , yet they have be in use in the capital from the most ancient time . there the mirror be consider a very necessary requisite for a woman to possess . there be a old proverb that ` as the sword be the soul of a samurai , so be the mirror the soul of a woman , ' and accord to popular tradition , a woman 's mirror be a index to she own heart -- if she keep it bright and clear , so be she heart pure and good . it be also one of the treasure that form the insignia of the Emperor . so you must lay great store by you mirror , and use it carefully . '' the wife listen to all she husband tell she , and be please at learn so much that be new to she . she be still more pleased at the precious gift -- he token of remembrance while he have be away . `` if the mirror represent my soul , I shall certainly treasure it as a valuable possession , and never will I use it carelessly . '' say so , she lift it as high as she forehead , in grateful acknowledgment of the gift , and then shut it up in its box and put it away . the wife see that she husband be very tired , and set about serve the evening meal and make everything as comfortable as she could for he . it seem to the little family as if they have not know what true happiness be before , so glad be they to be together again , and this evening the father have much to tell of he journey and of all he have see at the great capital . Time pass away in the peaceful home , and the parent see they fondest hope realize as they daughter grow from childhood into a beautiful girl of sixteen . as a gem of priceless value be hold in its proud owner 's hand , so have they rear she with uncease love and care : and now they pain be more than doubly reward . what a comfort she be to she mother as she go about the house take she part in the housekeeping , and how proud she father be of she , for she daily remind he of she mother when he have first marry she . but , alas ! in this world nothing last forever . even the moon be not always perfect in shape , but lose its roundness with time , and flower bloom and then fade . so at last the happiness of this family be break up by a great sorrow . the good and gentle wife and mother be one day take ill. . in the first day of she illness the father and daughter think that it be only a cold , and be not particularly anxious . but the day go by and still the mother do not get better ; she only grow worse , and the doctor be puzzle , for in spite of all he do the poor woman grow weaker day by day . the father and daughter be stricken with grief , and day or night the girl never leave she mother 's side . but in spite of all they effort the woman 's life be not to be save . one day as the girl sit near she mother 's bed , try to hide with a cheery smile the gnawing trouble at she heart , the mother rouse herself and take she daughter 's hand , gaze earnestly and lovingly into she eye . she breath be labor and she speak with difficulty : `` my daughter . I be sure that nothing can save I now . when I be dead , promise I to take care of you dear father and to try to be a good and dutiful woman . '' `` oh , mother , '' say the girl as the tear rush to she eye , `` you must not say such thing . all you have to do be to make haste and get well -- that will bring the greatest happiness to father and myself . '' `` yes , I know , and it be a comfort to I in my last day to know how greatly you long for I to get better , but it be not to be . do not look so sorrowful , for it be so ordain in my previous state of existence that I should die in this life just at this time ; know this , I be quite resign to my fate . and now I have something to give you whereby to remember I when I be go . '' put she hand out , she take from the side of the pillow a square wooden box tie up with a silken cord and tassel . undoing this very carefully , she take out of the box the mirror that she husband have give she year ago . `` when you be still a little child you father go up to the capital and bring I back as a present this treasure ; it be call a mirror . this I give you before I die . if , after I have cease to be in this life , you be lonely and long to see I sometimes , then take out this mirror and in the clear and shine surface you will always see I -- so will you be able to meet with I often and tell I all you heart ; and though I shall not be able to speak , I shall understand and sympathize with you , whatever may happen to you in the future . '' with these word the die woman hand the mirror to she daughter . the mind of the good mother seem to be now at rest , and sink back without another word she spirit pass quietly away that day . the bereaved father and daughter be wild with grief , and they abandon themselves to they bitter sorrow . they feel it to be impossible to take leave of the love woman who till now have fill they whole life and to commit she body to the earth . but this frantic burst of grief pass , and then they take possession of they own heart again , crushed though they be in resignation . in spite of this the daughter 's life seem to she desolate . she love for she dead mother do not grow less with time , and so keen be she remembrance , that everything in daily life , even the fall of the rain and the blowing of the wind , remind she of she mother 's death and of all that they have love and share together . one day when she father be out , and she be fulfil she household duty alone , she loneliness and sorrow seem more than she could bear . she throw herself down in she mother 's room and weep as if she heart would break . Poor child , she long just for one glimpse of the love face , one sound of the voice call she pet name , or for one moment 's forgetfulness of the ache void in she heart . suddenly she sit up . she mother 's last word have ring through she memory hitherto dull by grief . `` oh ! my mother tell I when she give I the mirror as a parting gift , that whenever I look into it I should be able to meet she -- to see she . I have nearly forget she last word -- how stupid I be ; I will get the mirror now and see if it can possibly be true ! '' she dry she eye quickly , and go to the cupboard take out the box that contain the mirror , she heart beating with expectation as she lift the mirror out and gaze into its smooth face . Behold , she mother 's word be true ! in the round mirror before she she see she mother 's face ; but , oh , the joyful surprise ! it be not she mother thin and waste by illness , but the young and beautiful woman as she remember she far back in the day of she own earliest childhood . it seem to the girl that the face in the mirror must soon speak , almost that she hear the voice of she mother tell she again to grow up a good woman and a dutiful daughter , so earnestly do the eye in the mirror look back into she own . `` it be certainly my mother 's soul that I see . she know how miserable I be without she and she have come to comfort I . Whenever I long to see she she will meet I here ; how grateful I ought to be ! '' and from this time the weight of sorrow be greatly lighten for she young heart . every morning , to gather strength for the day 's duty before she , and every evening , for consolation before she lay down to rest , do the young girl take out the mirror and gaze at the reflection which in the simplicity of she innocent heart she believe to be she mother 's soul . Daily she grow in the likeness of she dead mother 's character , and be gentle and kind to all , and a dutiful daughter to she father . a year spend in mourn have thus pass away in the little household , when , by the advice of he relation , the man marry again , and the daughter now find herself under the authority of a step-mother . it be a try position ; but she day spend in the recollection of she own beloved mother , and of try to be what that mother would wish she to be , have make the young girl docile and patient , and she now determine to be filial and dutiful to she father 's wife , in all respects . Everything go on apparently smoothly in the family for some time under the new regime ; there be no wind or wave of discord to ruffle the surface of every-day life , and the father be content . but it be a woman 's danger to be petty and mean , and step-mothers be proverbial all the world over , and this one 's heart be not as she first smile be . as the day and week grow into month , the step-mother begin to treat the motherless girl unkindly and to try and come between the father and child . sometimes she go to she husband and complain of she step - daughter 's behavior , but the father know that this be to be expect , take no notice of she ill-natured complaint . instead of lessen he affection for he daughter , as the woman desire , she grumbling only make he think of she the more . the woman soon see that he begin to show more concern for he lonely child than before . this do not please she at all , and she begin to turn over in she mind how she could , by some means or other , drive she step-child out of the house . so crooked do the woman 's heart become . she watch the girl carefully , and one day peep into she room in the early morning , she think she discover a grave enough sin of which to accuse the child to she father . the woman herself be a little frightened too at what she have see . so she go at once to she husband , and wipe away some false tear she say in a sad voice : `` please give I permission to leave you today . '' the man be completely take by surprise at the suddenness of she request , and wonder whatever be the matter . `` do you find it so disagreeable , '' he ask , `` in my house , that you can stay no longer ? '' `` no ! no ! it have nothing to do with you -- even in my dream I have never think that I wish to leave you side ; but if I go on living here I be in danger of lose my life , so I think it best for all concern that you should allow I to go home ! '' and the woman begin to weep afresh . she husband , distressed to see she so unhappy , and think that he could not have hear aright , say : `` tell I what you mean ! how be you life in danger here ? '' `` I will tell you since you ask I . you daughter dislike I as she step-mother . for some time past she have shut herself up in she room morning and evening , and look in as I pass by , I be convince that she have make a image of I and be try to kill I by magic art , cursing I daily . it be not safe for I to stay here , such be the case ; indeed , indeed , I must go away , we can not live under the same roof any more . '' the husband listen to the dreadful tale , but he could not believe he gentle daughter guilty of such a evil act . he know that by popular superstition people believe that one person could cause the gradual death of another by make a image of the hate one and cursing it daily ; but where have he young daughter learn such knowledge ? -- the thing be impossible . yet he remember have notice that he daughter stay much in she room of late and keep herself away from every one , even when visitor come to the house . put this fact together with he wife 's alarm , he think that there might be something to account for the strange story . he heart be tear between doubt he wife and trust he child , and he know not what to do . he decide to go at once to he daughter and try to find out the truth . comfort he wife and assure she that she fear be groundless , he glide quietly to he daughter 's room . the girl have for a long time past be very unhappy . she have try by amiability and obedience to show she goodwill and to mollify the new wife , and to break down that wall of prejudice and misunderstand that she know generally stand between step-parents and they step-children . but she soon find that she effort be in vain . the step-mother never trust she , and seem to misinterpret all she action , and the poor child know very well that she often carry unkind and untrue tale to she father . she could not help compare she present unhappy condition with the time when she own mother be alive only a little more than a year ago -- so great a change in this short time ! morning and evening she weep over the remembrance . Whenever she could she go to she room , and slide the screen to , take out the mirror and gaze , as she think , at she mother 's face . it be the only comfort that she have in these wretch day . she father find she occupy in this way . push aside the fusama , he see she bend over something or other very intently . look over she shoulder , to see who be enter she room , the girl be surprise to see she father , for he generally send for she when he wish to speak to she . she be also confuse at be find look at the mirror , for she have never tell any one of she mother 's last promise , but have keep it as the sacred secret of she heart . so before turn to she father she slip the mirror into she long sleeve . she father note she confusion , and she act of hide something , say in a severe manner : `` Daughter , what be you do here ? and what be that that you have hide in you sleeve ? '' the girl be frighten by she father 's severity . never have he speak to she in such a tone . she confusion change to apprehension , she color from scarlet to white . she sit dumb and shamefaced , unable to reply . appearance be certainly against she ; the young girl look guilty , and the father think that perhaps after all what he wife have tell he be true , speak angrily : `` then , be it really true that you be daily cursing you step-mother and pray for she death ? Have you forget what I tell you , that although she be you step-mother you must he obedient and loyal to she ? what evil spirit have take possession of you heart that you should be so wicked ? you have certainly change , my daughter ! what have make you so disobedient and unfaithful ? '' and the father 's eye fill with sudden tear to think that he should have to upbraid he daughter in this way . she on she part do not know what he mean , for she have never hear of the superstition that by pray over a image it be possible to cause the death of a hate person . but she see that she must speak and clear herself somehow . she love she father dearly , and could not bear the idea of he anger . she put out she hand on he knee deprecatingly : `` Father ! father ! do not say such dreadful thing to I . I be still you obedient child . indeed , I be . however stupid I may be , I should never be able to curse any one who belong to you , much less pray for the death of one you love . surely some one have be tell you lie , and you be daze , and you know not what you say -- or some evil spirit have take possession of your heart . as for I I do not know -- no , not so much as a dew-drop , of the evil thing of which you accuse I . '' but the father remember that she have hide something away when he first enter the room , and even this earnest protest do not satisfy he . he wish to clear up he doubt once for all . `` then why be you always alone in you room these day ? and tell I what be that that you have hide in you sleeve -- show it to I at once . '' then the daughter , though shy of confess how she have cherish she mother 's memory , see that she must tell she father all in order to clear herself . so she slip the mirror out from she long sleeve and lay it before he . `` this , '' she say , `` be what you see I look at just now . '' `` why , '' he say in great surprise . '' this be the mirror that I bring as a gift to you mother when I go up to the capital many year ago ! and so you have keep it all this time ? now , why do you spend so much of you time before this mirror ? '' then she tell he of she mother 's last word , and of how she have promise to meet she child whenever she look into the glass . but still the father could not understand the simplicity of he daughter 's character in not know that what she see reflect in the mirror be in reality she own face , and not that of she mother . `` what do you mean ? '' he ask . `` I do not understand how you can meet the soul of you lose mother by look in this mirror ? '' `` it be indeed true , '' say the girl : `` and if you do not believe what I say , look for yourself , '' and she place the mirror before she . there , look back from the smooth metal disk , be she own sweet face . she point to the reflection seriously : `` do you doubt I still ? '' she ask earnestly , look up into he face . with a exclamation of sudden understand the father smite he two hand together . `` how stupid I be ! at last I understand . you face be as like you mother 's as the two side of a melon -- thus you have look at the reflection of you face ail this time , think that you be bring face to face with you lose mother ! you be truly a faithful child . it seem at first a stupid thing to have do , but it be not really so , it show how deep have be you filialpiety , and how innocent you heart . live in constant remembrance of you lose mother have help you to grow like she in character . how clever it be of she to tell you to do this . I admire and respect you , my daughter , and I be ashamed to think that for one instant I believe you suspicious step-mother 's story and suspect you of evil , and come with the intention of scold you severely , while all this time you have be so true and good . before you I have no countenance leave , and I beg you to forgive I . '' and here the father weep . he think of how lonely the poor girl must have be , and of all that she must have suffer under she step-mother 's treatment . he daughter steadfastly keep she faith and simplicity in the midst of such adverse circumstance -- bear all she trouble with so much patience and amiability -- make he compare she to the lotus which rear its blossom of dazzling beauty out of the slime and mud of the moat and pond , fitting emblem of a heart which keep itself unsullied while pass through the world . the step-mother , anxious to know what would happen , have all this while be stand outside the room . she have grow interested , and have gradually push the slide screen back till she could see all that go on . at this moment she suddenly enter the room , and drop to the mat , she bow she head over she outspread hand before she step-daughter . `` I be ashamed ! I be ashamed ! '' she exclaim in broken tone . `` I do not know what n filial child you be . through no fault of yours , but with a step-mother 's jealous heart , I have dislike you all the time . hate you so much myself , it be but natural that I should think you reciprocate the feeling , and thus when I see you retire so often to you room I follow you , and when I see you gaze daily into the mirror for long interval , I conclude that you have find out how I dislike you , and that you be out of revenge try to take my life by magic art . as long as I live I shall never forget the wrong I have do you in so misjudge you , and in cause you father to suspect you . from this day I throw away my old and wicked heart , and in its place I put a new one , clean and full of repentance . I shall think of you as a child that I have bear myself . I shall love and cherish you with all my heart , and thus try to make up for all the unhappiness I have cause you . therefore , please throw into the water all that have go before , and give I , I beg of you , some of the filial love that you have hitherto give to you own lose mother . '' thus do the unkind step-mother humble herself and ask forgiveness of the girl she have so wrong . such be the sweetness of the girl 's disposition that she willingly forgive she step-mother , and never bear a moment 's resentment or malice towards she afterwards . the father see by he wife 's face that she be truly sorry for the past , and be greatly relieve to see the terrible misunderstanding wipe out of remembrance by both the wrong-doer and the wrong . from this time on , the three live together as happily as fish in water . no such trouble ever darken the home again , and the young girl gradually forget that year of unhappiness in the tender love and care that she step-mother now bestow on she . she patience and goodness be reward at last .