A TERRIBLE FRIGHT Arthur Scott Bailey it be the very next night after old dog spot have treed Fatty Coon in the big oak near the cornfield . they have finish they evening meal at Farmer Green 's house . the cow be milk , the horse have be feed , the chicken have all go to roost . and Farmer Green look up at the moon , rise from behind Blue Mountain . `` we 'll go coon-hunting again to-night , '' he say to Johnnie and the hire man . `` the corn have bring the coon up from the swamp . we 'll start as soon as it grow a little darker . '' well -- after a while they set out for the cornfield . and sure enough ! old spot soon begin to bark . `` he be treed ! '' say Farmer Green , pretty soon . and they all hurry over to the edge of the wood , where Spot have chase a coon up into a tall chestnut tree . in the moonlight they could see the coon quite plainly . `` another little feller ! '' cried Farmer Green . `` I declare , all the coon that come to the cornfield seem to be young one . this one 's no bigger than the one we see last night . '' now , although Farmer Green never guess it , it be Fatty Coon who be up there in the tall chestnut . he have run almost to the wood this time , before he have to take to a tree . in fact , if Spot have not be quite so close to he Fatty could have reach the wood , and then he would have just jump from one tree to another . but there be no tree near enough the big chestnut for that . Fatty have to stay right there and wait for those man to pass on . he be not afraid . he feel perfectly safe in he big tree . and he only smile when Johnnie Green say to he father -- `` I wish I have that young coon . he would make a fine pet . '' `` a pet ! '' exclaim Farmer Green . `` you remember that pet fox you have , that steal my chicken ? '' `` oh , I would be careful , '' Johnnie promise . `` besides , do not you think we ought to catch he , so he will not eat any more corn ? '' Farmer Green smile . he have be a boy himself , once upon a time , and he have not forget the pet coon that he have own when he be just about Johnnie 's age . `` all right ! '' he say at last . `` I 'll give you one more chance , Johnnie . but you 'll have to see that this young coon do not kill any of my poultry . '' Johnnie promise that nothing of the sort should happen . and then he father and the hire man pick up they axis ; and stand on opposite side of the tall chestnut tree , they begin to chop . how the chip do fly ! at the very first blow Fatty know that this be a entirely different sort of chop from that which Johnnie have attempt the night before . the great tree shake as if it know that it would soon come crash down upon the ground . and as for Fatty Coon , he could not see but that he must fall when the tree do . he , too , shiver and shake . and he wrap himself all the way around a limb and hang on as tight as ever he could .