65 Allerleirauh BrothersS Grimm there be once on a time a king who have a wife with golden hair , and she be so beautiful that she equal be not to be find on earth . it come to pass that she lay ill , and as she feel that she must soon die , she call the King and say , `` if thou wishest to marry again after my death , take no one who be not quite as beautiful as I be , and who have not just such golden hair as I have : this thou must promise I . '' and after the King have promise she this she close she eye and die . for a long time the King could not be comfort , and have no thought of take another wife . at length he councillor say , `` there be no help for it , the King must marry again , that we may have a Queen . '' and now messenger be send about far and wide , to seek a bride who equal the late Queen in beauty . in the whole world , however , none be to be find , and even if one have be find , still there would have be no one who have such golden hair . so the messenger come home as they go . now the King have a daughter , who be just as beautiful as she dead mother , and have the same golden hair . when she be grow up the King look at she one day , and see that in every respect she be like he late wife , and suddenly feel a violent love for she . then he speak to he councillor , `` I will marry my daughter , for she be the counterpart of my late wife , otherwise I can find no bride who resemble she . '' when the councillor hear that , they be shock , and say , `` God have forbid a father to marry he daughter , no good can come from such a crime , and the kingdom will be involve in the ruin . '' the daughter be still more shocked when she become aware of she father 's resolution , but hope to turn he from he design . then she say to he , `` before I fulfil you wish , I must have three dress , one as golden as the sun , one as silvery as the moon , and one as bright as the star ; besides this , I wish for a mantle of a thousand different kind of fur and hair join together , and one of every kind of animal in you kingdom must give a piece of he skin for it . '' but she think , `` to get that will be quite impossible , and thus I shall divert my father from he wicked intention . '' the King , however , do not give it up , and the cleverest maiden in he kingdom have to weave the three dress , one as golden as the sun , one as silvery as the moon , and one as bright as the star , and he huntsman have to catch one of every kind of animal in the whole of he kingdom , and take from it a piece of its skin , and out of these be make a mantle of a thousand different kind of fur . at length , when all be ready , the King cause the mantle to be bring , spread it out before she , and say , `` the wedding shall be to-morrow . '' when , therefore , the King 's daughter see that there be no longer any hope of turn she father 's heart , she resolve to run away from he . in the night whilst every one be asleep , she get up , and take three different thing from she treasure , a golden ring , a golden spinning-wheel , and a golden reel . the three dress of the sun , moon , and star she put into a nutshell , put on she mantle of all kind of fur , and blacken she face and hand with soot . then she commend herself to God , and go away , and walk the whole night until she reach a great forest . and as she be tire , she get into a hollow tree , and fall asleep . the sun rise , and she sleep on , and she be still sleep when it be full day . then it so happen that the King to whom this forest belong , be hunting in it . when he dog come to the tree , they sniff , and run bark round about it . the King say to the huntsman , `` just see what kind of wild beast have hide itself in there . '' the huntsmen obey he order , and when they come back they say , `` a wondrous beast be lie in the hollow tree ; we have never before see one like it . its skin be fur of a thousand different kind , but it be lie asleep . '' Said the King , `` see if you can catch it alive , and then fasten it to the carriage , and we will take it with we . '' when the huntsman lay hold of the maiden , she awake full of terror , and cry to they , `` I be a poor child , desert by father and mother ; have pity on I , and take I with you . '' then say they , `` Allerleirauh , thou wilt be useful in the kitchen , come with we , and thou canst sweep up the ash . '' so they put she in the carriage , and take she home to the royal palace . there they point out to she a closet under the stair , where no daylight enter , and say , `` hairy animal , there canst thou live and sleep . '' then she be send into the kitchen , and there she carry wood and water , sweep the hearth , pluck the fowl , pick the vegetable , rake the ash , and do all the dirty work . Allerleirauh live there for a long time in great wretchedness . Alas , fair princess , what be to become of thee now ! it happen , however , that one day a feast be hold in the palace , and she say to the cook , `` May I go up-stairs for a while , and look on ? I will place myself outside the door . '' the cook answer , `` yes , go , but you must be back here in half-an-hour to sweep the hearth . '' then she take she oil-lamp , go into she den , put off she fur-dress , and wash the soot off she face and hand , so that she full beauty once more come to light . and she open the nut , and take out she dress which shine like the sun , and when she have do that she go up to the festival , and every one make way for she , for no one know she , and think no otherwise than that she be a king 's daughter . the King come to meet she , give he hand to she , and dance with she , and think in he heart , `` my eye have never yet see any one so beautiful ! '' when the dance be over she curtsy , and when the King look round again she have vanish , and none know whither . the guard who stand outside the palace be call and question , but no one have see she . she have , however , run into she little den , have quickly take off she dress , make she face and hand black again , put on the fur-mantle , and again be Allerleirauh . and now when she go into the kitchen , and be about to get to she work and sweep up the ash , the cook say , `` leave that alone till morning , and make I the soup for the King ; I , too , will go upstairs awhile , and take a look ; but let no hair fall in , or in future thou shalt have nothing to eat . '' so the cook go away , and Allerleirauh make the soup for the king , and make bread soup and the best she could , and when it be ready she fetch she golden ring from she little den , and put it in the bowl in which the soup be serve . when the dancing be over , the King have he soup bring and eat it , and he like it so much that it seem to he he have never taste better . but when he come to the bottom of the bowl , he see a golden ring lie , and could not conceive how it could have get there . then he order the cook to appear before he . the cook be terrify when he hear the order , and say to Allerleirauh , `` Thou hast certainly let a hair fall into the soup , and if thou hast , thou shalt be beat for it . '' when he come before the King the latter ask who have make the soup ? the cook reply , `` I make it . '' but the King say , `` that be not true , for it be much better than usual , and cook differently . '' he answer , `` I must acknowledge that I do not make it , it be make by the rough animal . '' the King say , `` go and bid it come up here . '' when Allerleirauh come , the King say , `` who art thou ? '' `` I be a poor girl who no longer have any father or mother . '' he ask further , `` of what use art thou in my palace ? '' she answer , `` I be good for nothing but to have boot throw at my head . '' he continue , `` where didst thou get the ring which be in the soup ? '' she answer , `` I know nothing about the ring . '' so the King could learn nothing , and have to send she away again . after a while , there be another festival , and then , as before , Allerleirauh beg the cook for leave to go and look on . he answer , `` yes , but come back again in half-an-hour , and make the King the bread soup which he so much likes . '' then she run into she den , wash herself quickly , and take out of the nut the dress which be as silvery as the moon , and put it on . then she go up and be like a princess , and the King step forward to meet she , and rejoice to see she once more , and as the dance be just begin they dance it together . but when it be end , she again disappear so quickly that the King could not observe where she go . she , however , spring into she den , and once more make herself a hairy animal , and go into the kitchen to prepare the bread soup . when the cook have go up-stairs , she fetch the little golden spinning-wheel , and put it in the bowl so that the soup cover it . then it be take to the King , who eat it , and like it as much as before , and have the cook bring , who this time likewise be force to confess that Allerleirauh have prepare the soup . Allerleirauh again come before the King , but she answer that she be good for nothing else but to have boot throw at she head , and that she know nothing at all about the little golden spinning-wheel . when , for the third time , the King hold a festival , all happen just as it have do before . the cook say , `` Faith rough-skin , thou art a witch , and always puttest something in the soup which make it so good that the King like it better than that which I cook , '' but as she beg so hard , he let she go up at the appointed time . and now she put on the dress which shine like the star , and thus enter the hall . again the King dance with the beautiful maiden , and think that she never yet have be so beautiful . and whilst she be dance , he contrived , without she notice it , to slip a golden ring on she finger , and he have give order that the dance should last a very long time . when it be end , he want to hold she fast by she hand , but she tear herself loose , and spring away so quickly through the crowd that she vanish from he sight . she run as fast as she could into she den beneath the stair , but as she have be too long , and have stay more than half-an-hour she could not take off she pretty dress , but only throw over it she fur-mantle , and in she haste she do not make herself quite black , but one finger remain white . then Allerleirauh run into the kitchen , and cook the bread soup for the King , and as the cook be away , put she golden reel into it . when the King find the reel at the bottom of it , he cause Allerleirauh to be summon , and then he espy the white finger , and see the ring which he have put on it during the dance . then he grasp she by the hand , and hold she fast , and when she want to release herself and run away , she mantle of fur open a little , and the star-dress shone forth . the King clutch the mantle and tear it off . then she golden hair shone forth , and she stand there in full splendor , and could no longer hide herself . and when she have wash the soot and ash from she face , she be more beautiful than anyone who have ever be see on earth . but the King say , `` Thou art my dear bride , and we will never more part from each other . '' Thereupon the marriage be solemnize , and they live happily until they death .