a OLD CHINESE STORY . Japanese Writer Long , long ago there live a great chinese empress who succeed she brother the Emperor Fuki . it be the age of giant , and the Empress Jokwa , for that be she name , be twenty-five foot high , nearly as tall as she brother . she be a wonderful woman , and a able ruler . there be a interesting story of how she mend a part of the broken heaven and one of the terrestrial pillar which uphold the sky , both of which be damage during a rebellion raise by one of King Fuki 's subject . the rebel 's name be Kokai . he be twenty-six foot high . he body be entirely cover with hair , and he face be as black as iron . he be a wizard and a very terrible character indeed . when the Emperor Fuki die , Kokai be bite with the ambition to be Emperor of China , but he plan fail , and Jokwa , the dead Emperor 's sister , mount the throne . Kokai be so angry at be thwart in he desire that he raise a revolt . he first act be to employ the Water Devil , who cause a great flood to rush over the country . this swamp the poor people out of they home , and when the Empress Jokwa see the plight of she subject , and know it be Kokai 's fault , she declare war against he . now Jokwa , the Empress , have two young warrior call Hako and Eiko , and the former she make General of the front force . Hako be delighted that the Empress 's choice should fall on he , and he prepare himself for battle . he take up the longest lance he could find and mount a red horse , and be just about to set out when he hear some one gallop hard behind he and shouting : `` Hako ! Stop ! the general of the front force must be I ! '' he look back and see Eiko he comrade , ride on a white horse , in the act of unsheathe a large sword to draw upon he . Hako 's anger be kindle , and as he turn to face he rival he cry : `` insolent wretch ! I have be appoint by the Empress to lead the front force to battle . Do you dare to stop I ? '' `` yes , '' answer Eiko . `` I ought to lead the army . it be you who should follow I . '' at this bold reply Hako 's anger burst from a spark into a flame . `` dare you answer I thus ? take that , '' and he lunge at he with he lance . but Eiko move quickly aside , and at the same time , raise he sword , he wound the head of the General 's horse . oblige to dismount , Hako be about to rush at he antagonist , when Eiko , as quick as lightning , tear from he breast the badge of commandership and gallop away . the action be so quick that Hako stand daze , not know what to do . the Empress have be a spectator of the scene , and she could not but admire the quickness of the ambitious Eiko , and in order to pacify the rival she determine to appoint they both to the Generalship of the front army . so Hako be make commander of the left wing of the front army , and Eiko of the right . one hundred thousand soldier follow they and march to put down the rebel Kokai . within a short time the two general reach the castle where Kokai have fortify himself . when aware of they approach , the wizard say : `` I will blow these two poor child away with one breath . '' -lrb-B- he little think how hard he would find the fight . -rrb-B- with these word Kokai seize a iron rod and mount a black horse , and rush forth like a angry tiger to meet he two foe . as the two young warrior see he tear down upon they , they say to each other : `` we must not let he escape alive , '' and they attack he from the right and from the leave with sword and with lance . but the all-powerful Kokai be not to be easily beat -- he whirl he iron rod round like a great water-wheel , and for a long time they fight thus , neither side gain nor lose . at last , to avoid the wizard 's iron rod , Hako turn he horse too quickly ; the animal 's hoof strike against a large stone , and in a fright the horse rear as straight on end as a screen , throw he master to the ground . Thereupon Kokai draw he three-edged sword and be about to kill the prostrate Hako , but before the wizard could work he wicked will the brave Eiko have wheel he horse in front of Kokai and dare he to try he strength with he , and not to kill a fallen man . but Kokai be tire , and he do not feel inclined to face this fresh and dauntless young soldier , so suddenly wheeling he horse round , he flee from the fray . Hako , who have be only slightly stunned , have by this time get upon he foot , and he and he comrade rush after the retreat enemy , the one on foot and the other on horseback . Kokai , see that he be pursue , turn upon he nearest assailant , who be , of course , the mount Eiko , and draw forth a arrow from the quiver at he back , fit it to he bow and draw upon Eiko . as quick as lightning the wary Eiko avoid the shaft , which only touch he helmet string , and glance off , fall harmless against Hako 's coat of armor . the wizard see that both he enemy remain unscathed . he also know that there be no time to pull a second arrow before they would be upon he , so to save himself he resort to magic . he stretch forth he wand , and immediately a great flood arise , and Jokwa 's army and she brave young general be sweep away like a fall of autumn leave on a stream . Hako and Eiko find themselves struggle neck deep in water , and look round they see the ferocious Kokai make towards they through the water with he iron rod on high . they think every moment that they would be cut down , but they bravely strike out to swim as far as they could from Kokai 's reach . all of a sudden they find themselves in front of what seem to be a island rise straight out of the water . they look up , and there stand a old man with hair as white as snow , smile at they . they cry to he to help they . the old man nod he head and come down to the edge of the water . as soon as he foot touch the flood it divide , and a good road appear , to the amazement of the drown man , who now find themselves safe . Kokai have by this time reach the island which have rise as if by a miracle out of the water , and see he enemy thus save he be furious . he rush through the water upon the old man , and it seem as if he would surely be kill . but the old man appear not in the least dismayed , and calmly await the wizard 's onslaught . as Kokai draw near , the old man laugh aloud merrily , and turn into a large and beautiful white crane , flap he wing and fly upwards into the heaven . when Hako and Eiko see this , they know that they deliverer be no mere human being -- be perhaps a god in disguise -- and they hope later on to find out who the venerable old man be . in the meantime they have retreat , and it be now the close of day , for the sun be set , both Kokai and the young warrior give up the idea of fight more that day . that night Hako and Eiko decide that it be useless to fight against the wizard Kokai , for he have supernatural power , while they be only human . so they present themselves before the Empress Jokwa . after a long consultation , the Empress decide to ask the Fire King , Shikuyu , to help she against the rebel wizard and to lead she army against he . now Shikuyu , the Fire King , live at the South Pole . it be the only safe place for he to be in , for he burn up everything around he anywhere else , but it be impossible to burn up ice and snow . to look at he be a giant , and stand thirty foot high . he face be just like marble , and he hair and beard long and as white as snow . he strength be stupendous , and he be master of all fire just as Kokai be of water . `` surely , '' think the Empress , `` Shikuyu can conquer Kokai . '' so she send Eiko to the South Pole to beg Shikuyu to take the war against Kokai into he own hand and conquer he once for all . the Fire King , on hear the Empress 's request , smile and say : `` that be a easy matter , to be sure ! it be none other than I who come to you rescue when you and you companion be drown in the flood raise by Kokai ! '' Eiko be surprise at learn this . he thank the Fire King for come to the rescue in they dire need , and then besought he to return with he and lead the war and defeat the wicked Kokai . Shikuyu do as he be ask , and return with Eiko to the Empress . she welcome the Fire King cordially , and at once tell he why she have send for he -- to ask he to be the Generalissimo of she army . he reply be very reassuring : `` do not have any anxiety . I will certainly kill Kokai . '' Shikuyu then place himself at the head of thirty thousand soldier , and with Hako and Eiko show he the way , march to the enemy 's castle . the Fire King know the secret of Kokai 's power , and he now tell all the soldier to gather a certain kind of shrub . this they burn in large quantity , and each soldier be then order to fill a bag full of the ash thus obtain . Kokai , on the other hand , in he own conceit , think that Shikuyu be of inferior power to himself , and he murmur angrily : `` even though you be the Fire King , I can soon extinguish you . '' then he repeat a incantation , and the water-floods rise and well as high as mountain . Shikuyu , not in the least frightened , order he soldier to scatter the ash which he have cause they to make . every man do as he be bid , and such be the power of the plant that they have burn , that as soon as the ash mingle with the water a stiff mud be form , and they be all safe from drown . now Kokai the wizard be dismay when he see that the Fire King be superior in wisdom to himself , and he anger be so great that he rush headlong towards the enemy . Eiko ride to meet he , and the two fight together for some time . they be well match in a hand-to-hand combat . Hako , who be carefully watch the fray , see that Eiko begin to tire , and fear that he companion would be kill , he take he place . but Kokai have tire as well , and feel he self unable to hold out against Hako , he say artfully : `` you be too magnanimous , thus to fight for you friend and run the risk of be kill . I will not hurt such a good man . '' and he pretend to retreat , turn away the head of he horse . he intention be to throw Hako off he guard and then to wheel round and take he by surprise . but Shikuyu understand the wily wizard , and he speak at once : `` you be a coward ! you can not deceive I ! '' say this , the Fire King make a sign to the unwary Hako to attack he . Kokai now turn upon Shikuyu furiously , but he be tire and unable to fight well , and he soon receive a wound in he shoulder . he now break from the fray and try to escape in earnest . while the fight between they leader have be go on the two army have stand wait for the issue . Shikuyu now turn and bid Jokwa 's soldier charge the enemy 's force . this they do , and route they with great slaughter , and the wizard barely escape with he life . it be in vain that Kokai call upon the Water Devil to help he , for Shikuyu know the counter-charm . the wizard find that the battle be against he . Mad with pain , for he wound begin to trouble he , and frenzied with disappointment and fear , he dash he head against the rock of Mount Shu and die on the spot . there be a end of the wicked Kokai , but not of trouble in the Empress Jokwa 's Kingdom , as you shall see . the force with which the wizard fall against the rock be so great that the mountain burst , and fire rush out from the earth , and one of the pillar uphold the HeavensS be break so that one corner of the sky drop till it touch the earth . Shikuyu , the Fire King , take up the body of the wizard and carry it to the Empress Jokwa , who rejoice greatly that she enemy be vanquish , and she general victorious . she shower all manner of gift and honor upon Shikuyu . but all this time fire be burst from the mountain break by the fall of Kokai . whole village be destroy , rice-fields burnt up , river bed fill with the burning lava , and the homeless people be in great distress . so the Empress leave the capital as soon as she have reward the victor Shikuyu , and journey with all speed to the scene of disaster . she find that both Heaven and earth have sustain damage , and the place be so dark that she have to light she lamp to find out the extent of the havoc that have be work . have ascertain this , she set to work at repair . to this end she order she subject to collect stone of five color -- blue , yellow , red , white and black . when she have obtain these , she boil they with a kind of porcelain in a large caldron , and the mixture become a beautiful paste , and with this she know that she could mend the sky . now all be ready . summon the cloud that be sail ever so high above she head , she mount they , and ride heavenward , carry in she hand the vase contain the paste make from the stone of five color . she soon reach the corner of the sky that be break , and apply the paste and mend it . have do this , she turn she attention to the broken pillar , and with the leg of a very large tortoise she mend it . when this be finish she mount the cloud and descend to the earth , hope to find that all be now right , but to she dismay she find that it be still quite dark . neither the sun shone by day nor the moon by night . greatly perplex , she at last call a meeting of all the wise man of the Kingdom , and ask they advice as to what she should do in this dilemma . two of the wisest say : `` the road of Heaven have be damage by the late accident , and the Sun and Moon have be oblige to stay at home . neither the Sun could make he daily journey nor the Moon she nightly one because of the bad road . the Sun and Moon do not yet know that you Majesty have mend all that be damage , so we will go and inform they that since you have repair they the road be safe . '' the EmpressS approve of what the wise man suggest , and order they to set out on they mission . but this be not easy , for the Palace of the Sun and Moon be many , many hundred of thousand of mile distant into the East . if they travel on foot they might never reach the place , they would die of old age on the road . but Jokwa have recourse to magic . she give she two ambassador wonderful chariot which could whirl through the air by magic power a thousand mile per minute . they set out in good spirit , ride above the cloud , and after many day they reach the country where the Sun and the Moon be live happily together . the two ambassador be grant a interview with they majesty of light and ask they why they have for so many day seclude themselves from the Universe ? do they not know that by do so they plunge the world and all its people into uttermost darkness both day and night ? reply the Sun and the moon : `` surely you know that Mount Shu have suddenly burst forth with fire , and the road of Heaven have be greatly damage ! I , the Sun , find it impossible to make my daily journey along such rough road -- and certainly the moon could not issue forth at night ! so we both retire into private life for a time . '' then the two wise man bow themselves to the ground and say : `` we Empress Jokwa have already repair the road with the wonderful stone of five color , so we beg to assure you majesty that the road be just as they be before the eruption take place . '' but the Sun and the Moon still hesitate , say that they have hear that one of the pillar of Heaven have be break as well , and they fear that , even if the road have be remake , it would still be dangerous for they to sally forth on they usual journey . `` you need have no anxiety about the broken pillar , '' say the two ambassador . `` we empress restore it with the leg of a great tortoise , and it be as firm as ever it be . '' then the Sun and Moon appear satisfied , and they both set out to try the road . they find that what the Empress 's deputy have tell they be correct . after the examination of the heavenly road , the Sun and Moon again give light to the earth . all the people rejoice greatly , and peace and prosperity be secure in China for a long time under the reign of the wise Empress Jokwa .