ANNE LISBETH . H. C. Andersen Anne she fancy she have only half a soul , and that she child have take the other half down into the sea . never would she be able to swing herself aloft to the mercy of Heaven , till she have recover this other half , which be now hold fast in the deep water . Anne Lisbeth get back to she former home , but be no longer the woman she have be : she thought be confuse like a tangled skein ; only one thread , only one think she have disentangle , namely , that she must carry the spectre of the sea shore to the churchyard , and dig a grave for he , that thus she might win back she soul . many a night she be miss from she home ; and she be always find on the sea shore , wait for the spectre . in this way a whole year pass by ; and then one night she vanish again , and be not to be find ; the whole of the next day be waste in fruitless search . towards evening , when the clerk come into the church to toll the vesper bell , he see by the altar Anne Lisbeth , who have spend the whole day there . she physical force be almost exhaust , but she eye gleam brightly , and she cheek have a rosy flush . the last ray of the sun shone upon she , and gleam over the altar on the bright buckle of the Bible which lay there , open at the word of the prophet Joel : `` bend you heart , and not you garment , and turn unto the Lord ! '' that be just a chance , the people say ; as many thing happen by chance . in the face of Anne Lisbeth , illumine by the sun , peace and rest be to be see . she say she be happy , for now she have conquer . last night the spectre of the shore , she own child , have come to she , and have say to she , `` Thou hast dig I only half a grave , but thou hast now , for a year and a day , bury I altogether in thy heart , and it be there that a mother can best hide she child ! '' and then he give she she lost soul back again , and bring she here into the church . `` now I be in the house of God , '' she say , `` and in that house we be happy . '' and when the sun have set , Anne Lisbeth 's soul have rise to that region where there be no more anguish , and Anne Lisbeth 's trouble be over .