101 Bearskin BrothersS Grimm THERE be once a young fellow who enlist as a soldier , conduct himself bravely , and be always the foremost when it rain bullet . so long as the war last , all go well , but when peace be make , he receive he dismissal , and the captain say he might go where he like . he parent be dead , and he have no longer a home , so he go to he brother and beg they to take he in , and keep he until war break out again . the brother , however , be hard-hearted and say , `` what can we do with thee ? thou art of no use to we ; go and make a living for thyself . '' the soldier have nothing leave but he gun ; he take that on he shoulder , and go forth into the world . he come to a wide heath , on which nothing be to be see but a circle of tree ; under these he sit sorrowfully down , and begin to think over he fate . `` I have no money , '' think he , `` I have learn no trade but that of fighting , and now that they have make peace they do not want I any longer ; so I see beforehand that I shall have to starve . '' all at once he hear a rustling , and when he look round , a strange man stand before he , who wear a green coat and look right stately , but have a hideous cloven foot . `` I know already what thou art in need of , '' say the man ; `` gold and possession shall thou have , as much as thou canst make away with do what thou wilt , but first I must know if thou art fearless , that I may not bestow my money in vain . '' `` a soldier and fear -- how can those two thing go together ? '' he answer ; `` thou canst put I to the proof . '' `` very well , then , '' answer the man , `` look behind thee . '' the soldier turn round , and see a large bear , which come growl towards he . `` Oho ! '' cry the soldier , `` I will tickle thy nose for thee , so that thou shalt soon lose thy fancy for growl , '' and he aim at the bear and shoot it through the muzzle ; it fall down and never stir again . `` I see quite well , '' say the stranger , `` that thou art not want in courage , but there be still another condition which thou wilt have to fulfil . '' `` if it do not endanger my salvation , '' reply the soldier , who know very well who be stand by he . `` if it do , I 'll have nothing to do with it . '' `` Thou wilt look to that for thyself , '' answer Greencoat ; `` thou shalt for the next seven year neither wash thyself , nor comb thy beard , nor thy hair , nor cut thy nail , nor say one paternoster . I will give thee a coat and a cloak , which during this time thou must wear . if thou diest during these seven year , thou art mine ; if thou remainest alive , thou art free , and rich to boot , for all the rest of thy life . '' the soldier thought of the great extremity in which he now find himself , and as he so often have go to meet death , he resolve to risk it now also , and agree to the term . the Devil take off he green coat , give it to the soldier , and say , `` if thou hast this coat on thy back and puttest thy hand into the pocket , thou wilt always find it full of money . '' then he pull the skin off the bear and say , `` this shall be thy cloak , and thy bed also , for thereon shalt thou sleep , and in no other bed shalt thou lie , and because of this apparel shalt thou be call Bearskin . '' after this the Devil vanish . the soldier put the coat on , feel at once in the pocket , and find that the thing be really true . then he put on the bearskin and go forth into the world , and enjoy himself , refrain from nothing that do he good and he money harm . during the first year he appearance be passable , but during the second he begin to look like a monster . he hair cover nearly the whole of he face , he beard be like a piece of coarse feel , he finger have claw , and he face be so cover with dirt that if cress have be sow on it , it would have come up . Whosoever see he , run away , but as he everywhere give the poor money to pray that he might not die during the seven year , and as he pay well for everything he still always find shelter . in the fourth year , he enter a inn where the landlord would not receive he , and would not even let he have a place in the stable , because he be afraid the horse would be scare . but as Bearskin thrust he hand into he pocket and pull out a handful of ducat , the host let himself be persuade and give he a room in a outhouse . Bearskin be , however , oblige to promise not to let himself be see , lest the inn should get a bad name . as Bearskin be sit alone in the evening , and wish from the bottom of he heart that the seven year be over , he hear a loud lamenting in a neighboring room . he have a compassionate heart , so he open the door , and see a old man weep bitterly , and wring he hand . Bearskin go nearer , but the man spring to he foot and try to escape from he . at last when the man perceive that Bearskin 's voice be human he let himself be prevail on , and by kind word bearskin succeed so far that the old man reveal the cause of he grief . he property have dwindle away by degree , he and he daughter would have to starve , and he be so poor that he could not pay the innkeeper , and be to be put in prison . `` if that be you only trouble , '' say Bearskin , `` I have plenty of money . '' he cause the innkeeper to be bring thither , pay he and put a purse full of gold into the poor old man 's pocket besides . when the old man see himself set free from all he trouble he do not know how to be grateful enough . `` come with I , '' say he to Bearskin ; `` my daughter be all miracle of beauty , choose one of they for thyself as a wife . when she hear what thou hast do for I , she will not refuse thee . Thou dost in truth look a little strange , but she will soon put thee to rights again . '' this pleased Bearskin well , and he go . when the eldest saw he she be so terribly alarm at he face that she scream and run away . the second stand still and look at he from head to foot , but then she say , `` how can I accept a husband who no longer have a human form ? the shaven bear that once be here and pass itself off for a man please I far better , for at any rate it wear a hussar 's dress and white glove . if it be nothing but ugliness , I might get use to that . '' the youngest , however , say , `` dear father , that must be a good man to have help you out of you trouble , so if you have promise he a bride for do it , you promise must be keep . '' it be a pity that Bearskin 's face be cover with dirt and with hair , for if not they might have see how delighted he be when he hear these word . he take a ring from he finger , break it in two , and give she one half , the other he keep for himself . he write he name , however , on she half , and hers on he , and beg she to keep she piece carefully , and then he take he leave and say , `` I must still wander about for three year , and if I do not return then , thou art free , for I shall be dead . but pray to God to preserve my life . '' the poor betrothed bride dress herself entirely in black , and when she think of she future bridegroom , tear come into she eye . nothing but contempt and mockery fall to she lot from she sister . `` take care , '' say the eldest , `` if thou givest he thy hand , he will strike he claw into it . '' `` beware ! '' say the second . `` bear like sweet thing , and if he take a fancy to thee , he will eat thee up . '' `` Thou must always do as he like , '' begin the elder again , `` or else he will growl . '' and the second continued , `` but the wedding will be a merry one , for bear dance well . '' the bride be silent , and do not let they vex she . Bearskin , however , travel about the world from one place to another , do good where he be able , and give generously to the poor that they might pray for he . at length , as the last day of the seven year dawn , he go once more out on to the heath , and seat himself beneath the circle of tree . it be not long before the wind whistle , and the Devil stand before he and look angrily at he ; then he throw Bearskin he old coat , and ask for he own green one back . `` we have not get so far as that yet , '' answer Bearskin , `` thou must first make I clean . '' whether the Devil like it or not , he be force to fetch water , and wash Bearskin , comb he hair , and cut he nail . after this , he look like a brave soldier , and be much handsomer than he have ever be before . when the Devil have go away , Bearskin be quite lightheart . he go into the town , put on a magnificent velvet coat , seat himself in a carriage draw by four white horse , and drive to he bride 's house . no one recognize he , the father take he for a distinguished general , and lead he into the room where he daughter be sit . he be force to place himself between the two eldest , they help he to wine , give he the best piece of meat , and think that in all the world they have never see a handsomer man . the bride , however , sit opposite to he in she black dress , and never raise she eye , nor speak a word . when at length he ask the father if he would give he one of he daughter to wife , the two eldest jump up , run into they bedroom to put on splendid dress , for each of they fancy she be the choose one . the stranger , as soon as he be alone with he bride , bring out he half of the ring , and throw it in a glass of wine which he reach across the table to she . she take the wine , but when she have drunk it , and find the half ring lie at the bottom , she heart begin to beat . she get the other half , which she wear on a ribbon round she neck , join they , and see that the two piece fit exactly together . then say he , `` I be thy betrothed bridegroom , whom thou sawest as Bearskin , but through God 's grace I have again receive my human form , and have once more become clean . '' he go up to she , embrace she , and give she a kiss . in the meantime the two sister come back in full dress , and when they see that the handsome man have fall to the share of the youngest , and hear that he be Bearskin , they run out full of anger and rage . one of they drown herself in the well , the other hang herself on a tree . in the evening , some one knock at the door , and when the bridegroom open it , it be the Devil in he green coat , who say , `` Seest thou , I have now get two soul in the place of thy one ! ''