BELPHEGOR address to miss de CHAMMELAY La Fontain your name with ev ` ry pleasure here I place , the last effusion of my muse to grace . O charming Phillis ! may the same extend through time 's dark night : we praise together blend ; to this we surely may pretend to aim you acting and my rhyme attention claim . Long , long in mem ` ry 's page you fame shall live ; you , who such ecstacy so often give ; O'er mind , o ` er heart triumphantly you reign : in Berenice , in Phaedra , and Chimene , you tear and plaintive accent all engage : Beyond compare in proud Camilla 's rage ; you voice and manner auditor delight ; who strong emotion can so well excite ? no fine eulogium from my pen expect : with you each air and grace appear correct my first of Phillis 's you ought to be ; my sole affection have be place on thee ; Long since , have I presume the truth to tell ; but he who love would fain be love as well . no hope of gain such a charming fair , too soon , perhaps , I cede to despair ; you friend , be all I venture to be think , Though in you net I more than half be catch . most willingly you lover I would have be ; but time it be we story should be see . one , day , old Satan , sov ` reign dread of hell ; review he subject , as we hist ` rie tell ; the diff ` rent rank , confound as they stand , KingsS , noble , female , and plebeian blood , such grief express , and make such horrid cry , as almost stunned , and fill he with surprise . the monarch , as he pass , desire to know the cause that send each shade to realm below . some say -- my husband ; other WIFE reply ; the same be echo loud from ev ` ry side . he majesty on this be hear to say : if truth these shadow to my ear convey , with ease we glory we may now augment : I be fully bent to try th ' experiment . with this design we must some demon send , who wily art with prudence well can blend ; and , not content with watch Hymen 's flock , must add he own experience to the stock . the sable senate instantly approve the proposition that the monarch move ; Belphegor be to execute the work ; the proper talent in he seem to lurk : all ear and eye , a prying knave in grain in short , the very thing they wish to gain . that he might all expense and cost defray , they give he num ` rous bill without delay , and credit too , in ev ` ry place of note , with various thing that might they plan promote . he be , besides , the human lot to fill , of pleasure and of pain : -- of good and ill ; in fact , whate'er for mortal be design , with he legation be to be combine . he might by industry and wily art , he own affliction dissipate in part ; but die he could not , nor he country see , till he ten year complete on earth should be . BEHOLD he trav ` lling o ` er th ' extensive space ; between the realm of darkness and we race . to pass it , scarcely he a moment take ; on Florence instantly he cast a look ; -- delighted with the beauty of the spot , he there resolve to fix he earthly lot , regard it as proper for he wiles , a city fame for wanton freak and guile . Belphegor soon a noble mansion hire , and furnish it with ev ` ry thing desire ; as signor Roderick he design to pass ; he equipage be large of ev ` ry class ; expense anticipate day by day , what , in ten year , he have to throw away . he noble entertainment raise surprise ; Magnificence alone would not suffice ; Delightful pleasure he dispense around , and flattery abundantly be find , a art in which a demon should excel : no devil surely e ` er be like so well . he heart be soon the object of the FAIR ; to please Belphegor be they constant care . who lib ` rally with present smoothe the road , will meet no obstacle to LOVE 's abode . in ev ` ry situation they be sweet , I have often say , and now the same repeat : the primum mobile of human kind , be gold and silver , through the world we find . OUR envoy keep two book , in which he write the name of all the married pair of note ; but that assign to couple satisfy , he scarcely for it could a name provide , which make the demon almost blush to see , how few , alas ! in wedlock 's chain agree ; while presently the other , which contain Th ' unhappy -- not a leaf in blank remain . no other choice Belphegor now have get , than -- try himself the hymeneal knot . in Florence he behold a certain fair , with charming face and smart engaging air ; of noble birth , but puff with empty pride ; some mark of virtue , though not much beside . for Roderick be ask this lofty dame ; the father say Honesta \* -lrb-B- such she name -rrb-B- have many eligible offer find ; but , ` mong the num ` rous band that hover round , perhaps he daughter , Rod ` rick 's suit might take , though he should wish for time the choice to make . this approbation meet , and Rod ` rick ` gan to use he art and execute he plan . the entertainment , ball , and serenade , Plays , concert , present , feast , and masquerade , much lessen what the demon with he bring ; he nothing grudge : -- whate'er be wish he buy . the dame believe high honor she bestow , when she attention to he offer show ; and , after prayer , entreaty , and the rest , to be he wife she full assent express . BUT first a pettifogger to he come , of whom -lrb-B- aside -rrb-B- Belphegor make a game ; what ! say the demon , be a lady gain just like a house ? -- these scoundrel have obtain such pow ` r and sway , without they nothing 's do ; but hell will get they when they course be run . he reason properly ; when faith 's no more , true honesty be force to leave the door ; when man with confidence no longer view they fellow-mortals , -- happiness adieu ! the very mean we use t ' escape the snare , Oft deeper plunge we in the gulph of care ; Avoid attorney , if you comfort crave who know a PETTIFOGGER , know a KNAVE ; they contract , fill with IFS and FORS , appear the gate through which STRIFE find admittance here . in vain we hope again the earth ` twill leave still STRIFE remain , and we ourselves deceive : in spite of solemn form and law we see , that LOVE and HYMEN often disagree . the heart alone can tranquilize the mind ; in mutual passion ev ` ry bliss we find . HOW diff ` rent thing in other state appear ! with friend -- ` tis who can be the most sincere ; with lover -- all be sweetness , balm of life ; while all be IRKSOMENESS with man and wife . we daily see from DUTY spring disgust , and PLEASURE like true liberty to trust . be happy marriage for ever fly ? on full consideration I will own , that when each other 's folly couple bear ; they then deserve the name of HAPPY PAIR . ENOUGH of this : -- no sooner have we wight the belle possess , and pass the month 's delight ; but he perceive what marriage must be here , with such a demon in we nether sphere . for ever jar and discord ring around ; of folly , ev ` ry class we couple find ; Honesta often time such noise would make , she scream and cry the neighbor keep awake , who , run thither , by the wife be tell : -- some paltry tradesman 's daughter , coarse and bold , he should have have : -- not one of rank like I ; to treat I thus , what villain he must be ! a wife so virtuous , could he e ` er deserve ! my scruple be too great , or I should swerve ; indeed , without dispute , ` twould serve he right : -- we be not sure she nothing do in spite ; these prude can make we credit what they please : few ponder long when they can dupe with ease . THIS wife and husband , as we hist ` rie say , each moment squabble through the passing day ; they disagreement often would arise about a petticoat , card , table , pie , Gowns , chair , dice , summer-houses , in a word , thing most ridiculous and quite absurd . well might this spouse regret he hell profound , when he consider what he have meet on ground . to make we demon 's wretchedness complete , Honesta 's relative , from ev ` ry street , he seem to marry , since he daily feed the father , mother , sister -lrb-B- fit to wed , -rrb-B- and little brother , whom he send to school ; while MISS he portion to a wealthy fool . he utter ruin , howsoe'er , arise from he attorney-steward that he choose . what be that ? you ask -- a wily sneak knave , who , while he master spend , contrive to save ; till , in the end , grow rich , the land he buy , which he good lord be force to sacrifice . if , in the course of time , the master take the place of steward , and he fortune make , ` Twould only to they proper rank restore , those who become just what they be before . POOR Rod ` rick now no other hope have get , than what the chance of traffick might allot ; Illusion vain , or doubtful at the best : -- though some grow rich , yet all be not so bless . 'twa say we husband never would succeed ; and truly , such it seem to be decree . he agent -lrb-B- similar to those we see in modern day -rrb-B- be with he treasure free ; he ship be wreck ; he commerce come to naught ; deceive by knave , of whom he well have think ; oblige to borrow money , which to pay , he be unable at th ' appointed day , he flee , and with a farmer shelter take , where he might hope the bailiff would not look . he tell to Matthew , -lrb-B- such the farmer 's name , -rrb-B- he situation , character , and fame : by dun assail , and harass by a wife , who prove the very torment of he life , he know no place of safety to obtain , like ent ` ring other body , where 'twa plain , he might escape the catchpole 's prowl eye , Honesta 's wrath , and all she rage defy . from these he promise he would thrice retire ; Whenever Matthew should the same desire : thrice , but no more , t ` oblige this worthy man , who shelter give when from the fiend he run . the ambassador commence he form to change : -- from human frame to frame he ` gan to range ; but what become he own fantastick state , we book be silent , nor the fact relate . a only daughter be the first he seize , Whose charm corporeal much we demon pleased ; but Matthew , for a handsome sum of gold , oblige he , at a word , to quit he hold . this pass at Naples -- next to Rome he come , where , with another fair , he do the same ; but still the farmer banish he again , so well he could the devil 's will restrain ; another weighty purse to he be pay thrice Matthew drive he out from belle and maid . the king of Naples have a daughter fair , Admired , adore : -- she parent ' darling care ; in wedlock oft by many prince seek ; within she form , the wily demon think he might be sheltered from Honesta 's rage ; and none to drive he thence would dare engage . NAUGHT else be talk of , in or out of town , but devil drive by the cunning clown ; large sum be offer , if , by any art , he would make the demon from the fair depart . afflict much be Matthew , now to lose the gold thus tender , but he could not choose , for since Belphegor have oblige he thrice , he dare not hope the demon to entice ; Poor man be he , a sinner , who , by chance , -lrb-B- he know not how , it surely be romance , -rrb-B- have some few devil , truly , drive out : most worthy of contempt without a doubt . but all in vain : -- the man they take by force ; Proceed he must , or hang he would be of course . the demon be before we farmer place ; the sight be by the prince in person grace ; the wond ` rous contest number run to see , and all the world spectator fain would be . if vanquish by the devil : -- he must swing ; if vanquisher : -- ` twould thousand to he bring : the gallows be , no doubt , a horrid view ; yet , at the purse , he glance often fly ; the evil spirit laugh within he sleeve , to see the farmer tremble , fret , and grieve . he plead that the wight he would thrice obey ; the demon be by Matthew often pray ; but all in vain , -- the more he terror show , the more Belphegor ridicule bestow . AT length the clown be drive to declare , the fiend he be unable to ensnare ; away they Matthew to the gallows lead ; but as he go , it enter in he head , and , in a sort of whisper he aver -lrb-B- as be in fact the case -rrb-B- a drum he hear . the demon , with surprise , to Matthew cry ; what noise be that ? Honesta , he reply , who you demand , and every where pursue , the spouse who treat she with such vile abuse . THESE word be thunder to Belphegor 's ear , who instantly take flight , so great he fear ; to hell 's abyss he flee without delay , to tell adventure through the realm of day . Sire , say the demon , it be clearly true , Damnation do the marriage knot pursue . you highness often hither see arrive , not squad , but regiment , who , when alive , by Hymen be indissolubly tie : -- in person I the fact have fully try . Th ' institution , perhaps , most just could be : past age far more happiness might see ; but ev ` ry thing , with time , corruption show ; no jewel in you crown more lustre throw . BELPHEGOR 's tale by Satan be believe ; reward he get : the term , which-sorely grieved , be now reduce ; indeed , what have he do , that should prevent it ? -- if away he would run , who would not do the same who wed a shrew ? sure worse below the devil never know ! a brawl woman 's tongue , what saint can bear ? E ` en Job , Honesta would have teach despair . what be the inference ? you ask : -- I 'll tell ; -- live single , if you know you be well ; but if old Hymen o ` er you sens reign , beware Honestas , or you 'll rue the chain . \* by this character La Fontaine be suppose to have mean he own wife .