50 Briar-Rose BrothersS Grimm A long time ago there be a King and Queen who say every day , `` ah , if only we have a child ! '' but they never have one . but it happen that once when the Queen be bathing , a frog creep out of the water on to the land , and say to she , `` you wish shall be fulfil ; before a year have go by , you shall have a daughter . '' what the frog have say come true , and the Queen have a little girl who be so pretty that the King could not contain himself for joy , and order a great feast . he invite not only he kindred , friend and acquaintance , but also the Wise Women , in order that they might be kind and well-disposed towards the child . there be thirteen of they in he kingdom , but , as he have only twelve golden plate for they to eat out of , one of they have to be leave at home . the feast be hold with all manner of splendor and when it come to a end the Wise Women bestow they magic gift upon the baby : one give virtue , another beauty , a third riches , and so on with everything in the world that one can wish for . when eleven of they have make they promise , suddenly the thirteenth come in . she wish to avenge herself for not have be invite , and without greet , or even look at any one , she cry with a loud voice , `` the King 's daughter shall in she fifteenth year prick herself with a spindle , and fall down dead . '' and , without say a word more , she turn round and leave the room . they be all shock ; but the twelfth , whose good wish still remain unspoken , come forward , and as she could not undo the evil sentence , but only soften it , she say , `` it shall not be death , but a deep sleep of a hundred year , into which the princess shall fall . '' the King , who would fain keep he dear child from the misfortune , give order that every spindle in the whole kingdom should be burnt . meanwhile the gift of the Wise Women be plenteously fulfil on the young girl , for she be so beautiful , modest , good-natured , and wise , that everyone who see she be bind to love she . it happen that on the very day when she be fifteen year old , the King and Queen be not at home , and the maiden be leave in the palace quite alone . so she go round into all sort of place , look into room and bed-chambers just as she like , and at last come to a old tower . she climb up the narrow winding-staircase , and reach a little door . a rusty key be in the lock , and when she turn it the door spring open , and there in a little room sit a old woman with a spindle , busily spinning she flax . `` good day , old dame , '' say the King 's daughter ; `` what be you do there ? '' `` I be spinning , '' say the old woman , and nod she head . `` what sort of thing be that , that rattle round so merrily ? '' say the girl , and she take the spindle and want to spin too . but scarcely have she touch the spindle when the magic decree be fulfil , and she prick she finger with it . and , in the very moment when she feel the prick , she fall down upon the bed that stand there , and lay in a deep sleep . and this sleep extend over the whole palace ; the King and Queen who have just come home , and have enter the great hall , begin to go to sleep , and the whole of the court with they . the horse , too , go to sleep in the stable , the dog in the yard , the pigeon upon the roof , the fly on the wall ; even the fire that be flame on the hearth become quiet and sleep , the roast meat leave off frizzling , and the cook , who be just go to pull the hair of the scullery boy , because he have forget something , let he go , and go to sleep . and the wind fall , and on the tree before the castle not a leaf move again . but round about the castle there begin to grow a hedge of thorn , which every year become higher , and at last grow close up round the castle and all over it , so that there be nothing of it to be see , not even the flag upon the roof . but the story of the beautiful sleep `` briar-rose , '' for so the princess be name , go about the country , so that from time to time king ' son come and try to get through the thorny hedge into the castle . but they find it impossible , for the thorn hold fast together , as if they have hand , and the youth be catch in they , could not get loose again , and die a miserable death . after long , long year a King 's son come again to that country , and hear a old man talk about the thorn-hedge , and that a castle be say to stand behind it in which a wonderfully beautiful princess , name briar-rose , have be asleep for a hundred year ; and that the King and Queen and the whole court be asleep likewise . he have hear , too , from he grandfather , that many king ' son have already come , and have try to get through the thorny hedge , but they have remain stick fast in it , and have die a pitiful death . then the youth say , `` I be not afraid , I will go and see the beautiful briar-rose . '' the good old man might dissuade he as he would , he do not listen to he word . but by this time the hundred year have just pass , and the day have come when briar-rose be to awake again . when the King 's son come near to the thorn-hedge , it be nothing but large and beautiful flower , which part from each other of they own accord , and let he pass unhurt , then they close again behind he like a hedge . in the castle-yard he see the horse and the spotted hound lie asleep ; on the roof sit the pigeon with they head under they wing . and when he enter the house , the fly be asleep upon the wall , the cook in the kitchen be still hold out he hand to seize the boy , and the maid be sit by the black hen which she be go to pluck . he go on farther , and in the great hall he see the whole of the court lie asleep , and up by the throne lay the King and Queen . then he go on still farther , and all be so quiet that a breath could be hear , and at last he come to the tower , and open the door into the little room where briar-rose be sleep . there she lay , so beautiful that he could not turn he eye away ; and he stoop down and give she a kiss . but as soon as he kiss she , briar-rose open she eye and awake , and look at he quite sweetly . then they go down together , and the King awake , and the Queen , and the whole court , and look at each other in great astonishment . and the horse in the court-yard stand up and shake themselves ; the hound jump up and wag they tail ; the pigeon upon the roof pull out they head from under they wing , look round , and fly into the open country ; the fly on the wall creep again ; the fire in the kitchen burn up and flicker and cook the meat ; the joint begin to turn and frizzle again , and the cook give the boy such a box on the ear that he scream , and the maid pluck the fowl ready for the spit . and then the marriage of the King 's son with briar-rose be celebrate with all splendor , and they live contented to the end of they day .