CHARMING . H. C. Andersen Alfred the sculptor -- you know he ? we all know he : he win the great gold medal , and get a travel scholarship , go to Italy , and then come back to he native land . he be young in those day , and indeed he be young yet , though he be ten year older than he be then . after he return he visit one of the little provincial town on the island of Seeland . the whole town know who the stranger be , and one of the richest person give a party in honor of he , and all who be of any consequence , or possess any property , be invite . it be quite a event , and all the town know of it without its be announce by beat of drum . Apprentice boy , and child of poor people , and even some of the poor people themselves , stand in front of the house , and look at the light curtain ; and the watchman could fancy that _ he _ be give a party , so many people be in the street . there be quite a air of festivity about , and in the house be festivity also , for Mr. Alfred the sculptor be there . he talk , and tell anecdote , and all listen to he with pleasure and a certain kind of awe ; but none feel such respect for he as do the elderly widow of a official : she seem , so far as Mr. Alfred be concern , like a fresh piece of blot paper , that absorb all that be speak , and ask for more . she be very appreciative , and incredibly ignorant -- a kind of female Caspar Hauser . `` I should like to see Rome , '' she say . `` it must be a lovely city , with all the stranger who be continually arrive there . now , do give we a description of Rome . how do the city look when you come in by the gate ? '' `` I can not very well describe it , '' reply the sculptor . `` a great open place , and in the midst of it a obelisk , which be a thousand year old . '' `` a organist ! '' exclaim the lady , who have never meet with the word _ obelisk _ . a few of the guest could hardly keep from laughing , nor could the sculptor quite keep he countenance ; but the smile that rise to he lip fade away , for he see , close by the inquisitive dame , a pair of dark blue eye -- they belong to the daughter of the speaker , and any one who have such a daughter can not be silly ! the mother be like a fountain of question , and the daughter , who listen , but never speak , might pass for the beautiful Naiad of the fountain . how charming she be ! she be a study for the sculptor to contemplate , but not to converse with ; and , indeed , she do not speak , or only very seldom . `` have the Pope a large family ? '' ask the lady . and the young man considerately answer , as if the question have be better put , `` no , he do not come of a great family . '' `` that be not what I mean , '' the widow persist . `` I mean , have he a wife and child ? '' `` the Pope be not allow to marry , '' say the gentleman . `` I do not like that , '' be the lady 's comment . she certainly might have put more sensible question ; but if she have not speak in just the manner she use , would she daughter have lean so gracefully on she shoulder , look straight out with the almost mournful smile upon she face ? then Mr. Alfred speak again , and tell of the glory of color in Italy , of the purple hill , the blue Mediterranean , the azure sky of the South , whose brightness and glory be only surpass in the North by a maiden 's deep blue eye . and this he say with a peculiar application ; but she who should have understand he meaning , look as if she be quite unconscious of it , and that again be charming ! `` Italy ! '' sigh a few of the guest . `` oh , to travel ! '' sigh other . `` charming , charming ! '' chorus they all . `` yes , if I win a hundred thousand dollar in the lottery , '' say the head tax-collector 's lady , `` then we will travel . I and my daughter , and you , Mr. Alfred ; you must be we guide . we 'll all three travel together , and one or two good friend more . '' and she nod in such a friendly way at the company , that each one might imagine he or she be the person who be to be take to Italy . `` yes , we will go to Italy ! but not to those part where there be robber -- we 'll keep to Rome , and to the great high road where one be safe . '' and the daughter sigh very quietly . and how much may lie in one little sigh , or be place in it ! the young man place a great deal in it . the two blue eye , light up that evening in honor of he , must conceal treasure -- treasure of the heart and mind -- richer than all the glory of Rome ; and when he leave the party that night he have lose _ he _ heart -- lose it completely , to the young lady . the house of the head tax-collector 's widow be the one which Mr. Alfred the sculptor most assiduously frequent ; and it be understand that he visit be not intend for that lady , though he and she be the people who keep up the conversation ; he come for the daughter 's sake . they call she Kala . she name be really Calen Malena , and these two name have be contract into the one name , Kala . she be beautiful ; but a few say she be rather dull , and probably sleep late of a morning . `` she have be always accustom to that , '' she mother say . `` she be a beauty , and they always be easily tire . she sleep rather late , but that make she eye so clear . '' what a power lay in the depths of these dark blue eye ! `` still water run deep . '' the young man feel the truth of this proverb ; and he heart have sink into the depths . he speak and tell he adventure , and the mamma be as simple and eager in she question as on the first evening of they meeting . it be a pleasure to hear Alfred describe anything . he speak of Naples , of excursion to Mount Vesuvius , and show color print of several of the eruption . and the head tax-collector 's widow have never hear of they before , or take time to consider the question . `` good heaven ! '' she exclaim . `` so that be a burning mountain ! but be it not dangerous to the people round about ? '' `` whole city have be destroy , '' he answer ; `` for instance , Pompeii and Herculaneum . '' `` but the poor people ! -- and you see all that with you own eye ? '' `` no , I do not see any of the eruption represent in these picture , but I will show you a picture of my own , of a eruption I see . '' he lay a pencil sketch upon the table , and mamma , who have be absorb in the contemplation of the highly color print , throw a glance at the pale drawing , and cry in astonishment , `` do you see it throw up white fire ? '' for a moment Alfred 's respect for Kala 's mamma suffer a sudden diminution ; but , dazzle by the light that illumine Kala , he soon find it quite natural that the old lady should have no eye for color . after all , it be of no consequence , for Kala 's mamma have the best of all thing -- namely , Kala herself . and Alfred and Kala be betroth , which be natural enough , and the betrothal be announce in the little newspaper of the town . Mamma purchase thirty copy of the paper , that she might cut out the paragraph and send it to friend and acquaintance . and the betrothed pair be happy , and the mother-in-law elect be happy too ; for it seem like connect herself with Thorwaldsen . `` for you be a continuation of Thorwaldsen , '' she say to Alfred . and it seem to Alfred that mamma have in this instance say a clever thing . Kala say nothing ; but she eye shine , she lip smile , she every movement be graceful : yes , she be beautiful ; that can not be too often repeat . Alfred undertake to take a bust of Kala and of he mother-in-law . they sit to he accordingly , and see how he mould and smooth the soft clay with he finger . `` I suppose it be only on we account , '' say mamma-in-law , `` that you undertake this commonplace work , and do not leave you servant to do all that stick together . '' `` it be highly necessary that I should mould the clay myself , '' he reply . `` ah , yes , you be so very polite , '' retort mamma ; and Kala silently press he hand , still soil by the clay . and he unfold to both of they the loveliness of nature in creation , point out how the living stand higher in the scale than the dead creature , how the plant be develop beyond the mineral , the animal beyond the plant , and man beyond the animal . he strive to show they how mind and beauty become manifest in outward form , and how it be the sculptor 's task to seize that beauty and to manifest it in he work . Kala stand silent , and nod approbation of the express thought , while mamma-in-law make the following confession : `` it be difficult to follow all that . but I manage to hobble after you with my thought , though they whirl round and round , but I contrive to hold they fast . '' and Kala 's beauty hold Alfred fast , fill he soul , and seize and master he . beauty gleam forth from Kala 's every feature -- gleam from she eye , lurk in the corner of she mouth , and in every movement of she finger . Alfred the sculptor see this : he speak only of she , think only of she , and the two become one ; and thus it may be say that she speak much , for he and she be one , and he be always talk of she . such be the betrothal ; and now come the wedding , with bridesmaid and wedding present , all duly mention in the wedding speech . mamma-in-law have set up Thorwaldsen 's bust at the end of the table , attire in a dressing-gown , for he be to be a guest ; such be she whim . song be sing and cheer be give , for it be a gay wedding , and they be a handsome pair . `` Pygmalion receive he Galatea , '' so one of the song say . -lrb-B- Illustration : KALA be BUST . aaaaa -rrb-B- aaa `` ah , that be you mythology , '' say mamma-in-law . next day the youthful pair start for Copenhagen , where they be to live . mamma-in-law accompany they , `` to take care of the commonplace , '' as she say , mean the domestic economy . Kala be like a doll in a doll 's house , all be so bright , so new , and so fine . there they sit , all three ; and as for Alfred , to use a proverb that will describe he position , we may say that he sit like the friar in the goose-yard . the magic of form have enchant he . he have look at the case , and care not to inquire what the case contain , and that omission bring unhappiness , much unhappiness , into married life ; for the case may be break , and the gilt may come off ; and then the purchaser may repent he bargain . in a large party it be very disagreeable to observe that one 's button be give way , and that there be no buckle to fall back upon ; but it be worse still in a great company to become aware that wife and mother-in-law be talk nonsense , and that one can not depend upon oneself for a happy piece of wit to carry off the stupidity of the thing . the young married pair often sit hand in hand , he speaking and she let fall a word here and there -- the same melody , the same clear , bell-like sound . it be a mental relief when Sophy , one of she friend , come to pay a visit . Sophy be not pretty . she be certainly free from bodily deformity , though Kala always assert she be a little crooked ; but no eye save a friend 's would have remark it . she be a very sensible girl , and it never occur to she that she might become at all dangerous here . she appearance be like a pleasant breath of air in the doll 's house ; and air be certainly require here , as they all acknowledge . they feel they want airing , and consequently they come out into the air , and mamma-in-law and the young couple travel to Italy . `` thank Heaven that we be in we own four wall again , '' be the exclamation of mother and daughter when they come home , a year after . `` there be no pleasure in travel , '' say mamma-in-law . `` to tell the truth , it be very wearisome -- I beg pardon for say so . I find the time hang heavy , though I have my child with I ; and it be expensive work , travel , very expensive ! and all those gallery one have to see , and the quantity of thing you be oblige to run after ! you must do it for decency 's sake , for you be sure to be ask when you come back ; and then you be sure to be tell that you have omit to see what be best worth see . I get tire at last of those endless Madonnas ; one seem to be turn a Madonna oneself ! '' `` and what bad living you get ! '' say Kala . `` yes , '' reply mamma , `` no such thing as a honest meat soup . it be miserable trash , they cookery . '' and the travel fatigue Kala : she be always fatigue , that be the worst of it . Sophy be take into the house , where she presence be a real advantage . mamma-in-law acknowledge that Sophy understand both housewifery and art , though a knowledge of the latter could not be expect from a person of she limited means ; and she be , moreover , a honest , faithful girl ; she show that thoroughly while Kala lay sick -- fading away . where the case be everything , the case should be strong , or else all be over . and all _ be _ over with the case -- Kala die . `` she be beautiful , '' say mamma , `` she be quite different from the antique , for they be so damage . a beauty ought to be perfect , and Kala be a perfect beauty . '' Alfred weep , and mamma weep , and both of they wear mourn . the black dress suit mamma very well , and she wear mourn the longest . moreover , she have to experience another grief in see Alfred marry again -- marry Sophy , who have no appearance at all . `` he be go to the very extreme , '' cry mamma-in-law ; `` he have go from the most beautiful to the ugliest , and he have forget he first wife . man have no endurance . my husband be of a different stamp , and he die before I . '' `` Pygmalion receive he Galatea , '' say Alfred : `` yes , that be what they say in the wedding song . I have once really fall in love with the beautiful statue , which awake to life in my arm ; but the kindred soul which Heaven send down to we , the angel who can feel and sympathise with and elevate we , I have not find and win till now . you come , Sophy , not in the glory of outward beauty , though you be fair , fairer than be needful . the chief thing remain the chief . you come to teach the sculptor that he work be but clay and dust , only a outward form in a fabric that pass away , and that we must seek the essence , the internal spirit . Poor Kala ! ours be but wayfarer ' life . Yonder , where we shall know each other by sympathy , we shall be half stranger . '' `` that be not lovingly speak , '' say Sophy , `` not speak like a Christian . Yonder , where there be no give in marriage , but where , as you say , soul attract each other by sympathy ; there where everything beautiful develop itself and be elevate , she soul may acquire such completeness that it may sound more harmoniously than mine ; and you will then once more utter the first raptured exclamation of you love , Beautiful -- most beautiful ! ''