21 Cinderella BrothersS Grimm the wife of a rich man fall sick , and as she feel that she end be draw near , she call she only daughter to she bedside and say , `` dear child , be good and pious , and then the good God will always protect thee , and I will look down on thee from heaven and be near thee . '' Thereupon she close she eye and depart . every day the maiden go out to she mother 's grave , and weep , and she remain pious and good . when winter come the snow spread a white sheet over the grave , and when the spring sun have draw it off again , the man have take another wife . the woman have bring two daughter into the house with she , who be beautiful and fair of face , but vile and black of heart . now begin a bad time for the poor step-child . `` be the stupid goose to sit in the parlor with we ? '' say they . `` he who want to eat bread must earn it ; out with the kitchen-wench . '' they take she pretty clothes away from she , put a old gray bedgown on she , and give she wooden shoe . `` just look at the proud princess , how deck out she be ! '' they cry , and laugh , and lead she into the kitchen . there she have to do hard work from morning till night , get up before daybreak , carry water , light fire , cook and wash. . besides this , the sister do she every imaginable injury -- they mock she and empty she pea and lentil into the ash , so that she be force to sit and pick they out again . in the evening when she have work till she be weary she have no bed to go to , but have to sleep by the fireside in the ash . and as on that account she always look dusty and dirty , they call she Cinderella . it happen that the father be once go to the fair , and he ask he two step-daughters what he should bring back for they . `` beautiful dress , '' say one , `` Pearls and jewel , '' say the second . `` and thou , Cinderella , '' say he , `` what wilt thou have ? '' `` Father , break off for I the first branch which knock against you hat on you way home . '' so he buy beautiful dress , pearl and jewel for he two step-daughters , and on he way home , as he be ride through a green thicket , a hazel twig brush against he and knock off he hat . then he break off the branch and take it with he . when he reach home he give he step-daughters the thing which they have wish for , and to Cinderella he give the branch from the hazel-bush . Cinderella thank he , go to she mother 's grave and plant the branch on it , and weep so much that the tear fall down on it and water it . and it grow , however , and become a handsome tree . thrice a day Cinderella go and sit beneath it , and weep and pray , and a little white bird always come on the tree , and if Cinderella express a wish , the bird throw down to she what she have wish for . it happen , however , that the King appoint a festival which be to last three day , and to which all the beautiful young girl in the country be invite , in order that he son might choose himself a bride . when the two step-sisters hear that they too be to appear among the number , they be delighted , call Cinderella and say , `` Comb we hair for we , brush we shoe and fasten we buckle , for we be go to the festival at the King 's palace . '' Cinderella obey , but weep , because she too would have like to go with they to the dance , and beg she step-mother to allow she to do so . `` Thou go , Cinderella ! '' say she ; `` Thou art dusty and dirty and wouldst go to the festival ? Thou hast no clothes and shoe , and yet wouldst dance ! '' as , however , Cinderella go on ask , the step-mother at last say , `` I have empty a dish of lentil into the ash for thee , if thou hast pick they out again in two hour , thou shalt go with we . '' the maiden go through the back-door into the garden , and call , `` you tame pigeon , you turtle-doves , and all you bird beneath the sky , come and help I to pick `` the good into the pot , the bad into the crop . '' then two white pigeon come in by the kitchen-window , and afterwards the turtle-doves , and at last all the bird beneath the sky , come whir and crowd in , and alight amongst the ash . and the pigeon nod with they head and begin pick , pick , pick , pick , and the rest begin also pick , pick , pick , pick , and gather all the good grain into the dish . hardly have one hour pass before they have finish , and all fly out again . then the girl take the dish to she step-mother , and be glad , and believe that now she would be allow to go with they to the festival . but the step-mother say , `` no , Cinderella , thou hast no clothes and thou canst not dance ; thou wouldst only be laugh at . '' and as Cinderella weep at this , the step-mother say , `` if thou canst pick two dish of lentil out of the ash for I in one hour , thou shalt go with we . '' and she think to herself , `` that she most certainly can not do . '' when the step-mother have empty the two dish of lentil amongst the ash , the maiden go through the back-door into the garden and cry , you tame pigeon , you turtle-doves , and all you bird under heaven , come and help I to pick `` the good into the pot , the bad into the crop . '' then two white pigeon come in by the kitchen-window , and afterwards the turtle-doves , and at length all the bird beneath the sky , come whir and crowd in , and alight amongst the ash . and the dove nod with they head and begin pick , pick , pick , pick , and the other begin also pick , pick , pick , pick , and gather all the good seed into the dish , and before half a hour be over they have already finish , and all fly out again . then the maiden carry the dish to the step-mother and be delighted , and believe that she might now go with they to the festival . but the step-mother say , `` all this will not help thee ; thou goest not with we , for thou hast no clothes and canst not dance ; we should be ashamed of thee ! '' on this she turn she back on Cinderella , and hurry away with she two proud daughter . as no one be now at home , Cinderella go to she mother 's grave beneath the hazel-tree , and cry , `` Shiver and quiver , little tree , silver and gold throw down over I . '' then the bird throw a gold and silver dress down to she , and slipper embroider with silk and silver . she put on the dress with all speed , and go to the festival . she step-sisters and the step-mother however do not know she , and think she must be a foreign princess , for she look so beautiful in the golden dress . they never once think of Cinderella , and believe that she be sit at home in the dirt , pick lentil out of the ash . the prince go to meet she , take she by the hand and dance with she . he would dance with no other maiden , and never leave loose of she hand , and if any one else come to invite she , he say , `` this be my partner . '' she dance till it be evening , and then she want to go home . but the King 's son say , `` I will go with thee and bear thee company , '' for he wish to see to whom the beautiful maiden belong . she escape from he , however , and spring into the pigeon-house . the King 's son wait until she father come , and then he tell he that the stranger maiden have leap into the pigeon-house . the old man thought , `` can it be Cinderella ? '' and they have to bring he a axe and a pickaxe that he might hew the pigeon-house to piece , but no one be inside it . and when they get home Cinderella lay in she dirty clothes among the ash , and a dim little oil-lamp be burn on the mantle-piece , for Cinderella have jump quickly down from the back of the pigeon-house and have run to the little hazel-tree , and there she have take off she beautiful clothes and lay they on the grave , and the bird have take they away again , and then she have place herself in the kitchen amongst the ash in she gray gown . next day when the festival begin afresh , and she parent and the step-sisters have go once more , Cinderella go to the hazel-tree and say -- `` Shiver and quiver , my little tree , silver and gold throw down over I . '' then the bird throw down a much more beautiful dress than on the preceding day . and when Cinderella appear at the festival in this dress , every one be astonish at she beauty . the King 's son have wait until she come , and instantly take she by the hand and dance with no one but she . when other come and invite she , he say , `` she be my partner . '' when evening come she wish to leave , and the King 's son follow she and want to see into which house she go . but she spring away from he , and into the garden behind the house . therein stand a beautiful tall tree on which hang the most magnificent pear . she clamber so nimbly between the branch like a squirrel that the King 's son do not know where she be go . he wait until she father come , and say to he , `` the stranger-maiden have escape from I , and I believe she have climb up the pear-tree . '' the father think , `` can it be Cinderella ? '' and have a axe bring and cut the tree down , but no one be on it . and when they get into the kitchen , Cinderella lay there amongst the ash , as usual , for she have jump down on the other side of the tree , have take the beautiful dress to the bird on the little hazel-tree , and put on she gray gown . on the third day , when the parent and sister have go away , Cinderella go once more to she mother 's grave and say to the little tree -- `` Shiver and quiver , my little tree , silver and gold throw down over I . '' and now the bird throw down to she a dress which be more splendid and magnificent than any she have yet have , and the slipper be golden . and when she go to the festival in the dress , no one know how to speak for astonishment . the King 's son dance with she only , and if any one invite she to dance , he say , `` she be my partner . '' when evening come , Cinderella wish to leave , and the King 's son be anxious to go with she , but she escape from he so quickly that he could not follow she . the King 's son have , however , use a strategem , and have cause the whole staircase to be smear with pitch , and there , when she run down , have the maiden 's left slipper remain sticking . the King 's son pick it up , and it be small and dainty , and all golden . next morning , he go with it to the father , and say to he , `` no one shall be my wife but she whose foot this golden slipper fit . '' then be the two sister glad , for they have pretty foot . the eldest go with the shoe into she room and want to try it on , and she mother stand by . but she could not get she big toe into it , and the shoe be too small for she . then she mother give she a knife and say , `` Cut the toe off ; when thou art Queen thou wilt have no more need to go on foot . '' the maiden cut the toe off , force the foot into the shoe , swallow the pain , and go out to the King 's son . then he take she on he he horse as he bride and ride away with she . they be , however , oblige to pass the grave , and there , on the hazel-tree , sit the two pigeon and cry , `` turn and peep , turn and peep , there be blood within the shoe , the shoe it be too small for she , the true bride wait for you . '' then he look at she foot and see how the blood be stream from it . he turn he horse round and take the false bride home again , and say she be not the true one , and that the other sister be to put the shoe on . then this one go into she chamber and get she toe safely into the shoe , but she heel be too large . so she mother give she a knife and say , `` Cut a bit off thy heel ; when thou art Queen thou wilt have no more need to go on foot . '' the maiden cut a bit off she heel , force she foot into the shoe , swallow the pain , and go out to the King 's son . he take she on he horse as he bride , and ride away with she , but when they pass by the hazel-tree , two little pigeon sit on it and cry , `` turn and peep , turn and peep , there be blood within the shoe the shoe it be too small for she , the true bride wait for you . '' he look down at she foot and see how the blood be run out of she shoe , and how it have stain she white stock . then he turn he horse and take the false bride home again . `` this also be not the right one , '' say he , `` have you no other daughter ? '' `` no , '' say the man , `` there be still a little stunt kitchen-wench which my late wife leave behind she , but she can not possibly be the bride . '' the King 's son say he be to send she up to he ; but the mother answer , `` oh , no , she be much too dirty , she can not show herself ! '' he absolutely insist on it , and Cinderella have to be call . she first wash she hand and face clean , and then go and bow down before the King 's son , who give she the golden shoe . then she seat herself on a stool , draw she foot out of the heavy wooden shoe , and put it into the slipper , which fit like a glove . and when she rise up and the King 's son look at she face he recognize the beautiful maiden who have dance with he and cry , `` that be the true bride ! '' the step-mother and the two sister be terrify and become pale with rage ; he , however , take cinderellum on he horse and ride away with she . as they pass by the hazel-tree , the two white dove cry -- `` turn and peep , turn and peep , no blood be in the shoe , the shoe be not too small for she , the true bride ride with you , '' and when they have cry that , the two come fly down and place themselves on Cinderella 's shoulder , one on the right , the other on the left , and remain sit there . when the wedding with the King 's son have to be celebrate , the two false sister come and want to get into favor with Cinderella and share she good fortune . when the betrothed couple go to church , the elder be at the right side and the younger at the left , and the pigeon peck out one eye of each of they . afterwards as they come back , the elder be at the left , and the younger at the right , and then the pigeon peck out the other eye of each . and thus , for they wickedness and falsehood , they be punish with blindness as long as they live .