98 Doctor Knowall BrothersS Grimm there be once on a time a poor peasant call Crabb , who drive with two ox a load of wood to the town , and sell it to a doctor for two thaler . when the money be be count out to he , it so happen that the doctor be sit at table , and when the peasant see how daintily he eat and drank , he heart desire what he see , and he would willingly have be a doctor too . so he remain stand a while , and at length inquire if he too could not be a doctor . `` oh , yes , '' say the doctor , `` that be soon manage . '' `` what must I do ? '' ask the peasant . `` in the first place buy thyself a a B C book of the kind which have a cock on the frontispiece : in the second , turn thy cart and thy two ox into money , and get thyself some clothes , and whatsoever else pertain to medicine ; thirdly , have a sign paint for thyself with the word , `` I be Doctor Knowall , '' and have that nail up above thy house-door . '' the peasant do everything that he have be tell to do . when he have doctor people awhile , but not long , a rich and great lord have some money steal . then he be tell about Doctor Knowall who live in such and such a village , and must know what have become of the money . so the lord have the horse put in he carriage , drive out to the village , and ask Crabb if he be Doctor Knowall ? Yes , he be , he say . then he be to go with he and bring back the steal money . `` oh , yes , but Grethe , my wife , must go too . '' the lord be willing and let both of they have a seat in the carriage , and they all drive away together . when they come to the nobleman 's castle , the table be spread , and Crabb be tell to sit down and eat . `` yes , but my wife , Grethe , too , '' say he , and he seat himself with she at the table . and when the first servant come with a dish of delicate fare , the peasant nudge he wife , and say , `` Grethe , that be the first , '' mean that be the servant who bring the first dish . the servant , however , think he intend by that to say , `` that be the first thief , '' and as he actually be so , he be terrify , and say to he comrade outside , `` the doctor know all : we shall fare ill , he say I be the first . '' the second do not want to go in at all , but be force . so when he go in with he dish , the peasant nudge he wife , and say , `` Grethe , that be the second . '' this servant be just as much alarmed , and he get out . the third do not fare better , for the peasant again say , `` Grethe , that be the third . '' the fourth have to carry in a dish that be cover , and the lord tell the doctor that he be to show he skill , and guess what be beneath the cover . the doctor look at the dish , have no idea what to say , and cry , `` ah , poor Crabb . '' when the lord hear that , he cry , `` there ! he know it , he know who have the money ! '' on this the servant look terribly uneasy , and make a sign to the doctor that they wish he to step outside for a moment . when therefore he go out , all four of they confess to he that they have steal the money , and say that they would willingly restore it and give he a heavy sum into the bargain , if he would not denounce they , for if he do they would be hang . they lead he to the spot where the money be conceal . with this the doctor be satisfy , and return to the hall , sit down to the table , and say , `` my lord , now will I search in my book where the gold be hide . '' the fifth servant , however , creep into the stove to hear if the doctor know still more . the Doctor , however , sit still and open he a B C book , turn the page backwards and forwards , and look for the cock . as he could not find it immediately he say , `` I know you be there , so you have better show yourself . '' then the fellow in the stove thought that the doctor mean he , and full of terror , spring out , cry , `` that man know everything ! '' then Dr. Knowall show the count where the money be , but do not say who have steal it , and receive from both side much money in reward , and become a renowned man .