122 Donkey Cabbages BrothersS Grimm there be once a young huntsman who go into the forest to lie in wait . he have a fresh and joyous heart , and as he be go thither , whistle upon a leaf , a ugly old crone come up , who speak to he and say , `` good-day , dear huntsman , truly you be merry and contented , but I be suffer from hunger and thirst , do give I a alms . '' the huntsman have compassion on the poor old creature , feel in he pocket , and give she what he could afford . he be then about to go further , but the old woman stop he and say , `` listen , dear huntsman , to what I tell you ; I will make you a present in return for you kindness . go on you way now , but in a little while you will come to a tree , whereon nine bird be sit which have a cloak in they claw , and be pluck at it ; take you gun and shoot into the midst of they , they will let the cloak fall down to you , but one of the bird will be hurt , and will drop down dead . carry away the cloak , it be a wishing-cloak ; when you throw it over you shoulder , you only have to wish to be in a certain place , and you will be there in the twinkling of a eye . take out the heart of the dead bird and swallow it whole , and every morning early , when you get up , you will find a gold piece under you pillow . '' the huntsman thank the wise woman , and think to himself , `` those be fine thing that she have promise I , if all do but come true . '' and verily when he have walk about a hundred pace , he hear in the branch above he such a scream and twitter that he look up and see there a crowd of bird who be tear a piece of cloth about with they beak and claw , and tug and fight as if each want to have it all to himself . `` well , '' say the huntsman , `` this be wonderful , it have really come to pass just as the old wife foretold ! '' and he take the gun from he shoulder , aim and fire right into the midst of they , so that the feather fly about . the bird instantly take to flight with loud outcry , but one drop down dead , and the cloak fall at the same time . then the huntsman do as the old woman have direct he , cut open the bird , seek the heart , swallow it down , and take the cloak home with he . next morning , when he awake , the promise occur to he , and he wish to see if it also have be fulfil . when he lift up the pillow , the gold piece shone in he eye , and next day he find another , and so it go on , every time he get up . he gather together a heap of gold , but at last he think , `` of what use be all my gold to I if I stay at home ? I will go forth and see the world . '' he then take leave of he parent , buckle on he huntsman 's pouch and gun , and go out into the world . it come to pass , that one day he travel through a dense forest , and when he come to the end of it , in the plain before he stand a fine castle . a old woman be stand with a wonderfully beautiful maiden , look out of one of the window . the old woman , however , be a witch and say to the maiden , `` there come one out of the forest , who have a wonderful treasure in he body , we must filch it from he , my dear daughter , it be more suitable for we than for he . he have a bird 's heart about he , by means of which a gold piece lie every morning under he pillow . '' she tell she what she be to do to get it , and what part she have to play , and finally threaten she , and say with angry eye , `` and if you do not attend to what I say , it will be the worse for you . '' now when the huntsman come nearer he descry the maiden , and say to himself , `` I have travel about for such a long time , I will take a rest for once , and enter that beautiful castle . I have certainly money enough . '' nevertheless , the real reason be that he have catch sight of the pretty girl . he enter the house , and be well receive and courteously entertain . before long he be so much in love with the young witch that he no longer think of anything else , and only see thing as she see they , and do what she desire . the old woman then say , `` now we must have the bird 's heart , he will never miss it . '' she prepare a drink , and when it be ready , pour it into a cup and give it to the maiden , who be to present it to the huntsman . she do so , say , `` now , my dearest , drink to I . '' so he take the cup , and when he have swallow the draught , he bring up the heart of the bird . the girl have to take it away secretly and swallow it herself , for the old woman would have it so . thenceforward he find no more gold under he pillow , but it lay instead under that of the maiden , from whence the old woman fetch it away every morning ; but he be so much in love and so befooled , that he think of nothing else but of pass he time with the girl . then the old witch say , `` we have the bird 's heart , but we must also take the wishing-cloak away from he . '' the girl answer , `` we will leave he that , he have lose he wealth . '' the old woman be angry and say , `` such a mantle be a wonderful thing , and be seldom to be find in this world . I must and will have it ! '' she give the girl several blow , and say that if she do not obey , it should fare ill with she . so she do the old woman 's bidding , place herself at the window and look on the distant country , as if she be very sorrowful . the huntsman ask , `` why dost thou stand there so sorrowfully ? '' `` ah , my beloved , '' be she answer , `` over yonder lie the Garnet Mountain , where the precious stone grow . I long for they so much that when I think of they , I feel quite sad , but who can get they ? only the bird ; they fly and can reach they , but a man never . '' `` hast thou nothing else to complain of ? '' say the huntsman . `` I will soon remove that burden from thy heart . '' with that he draw she under he mantle , wish himself on the Garnet Mountain , and in the twinkling of a eye they be sit on it together . precious stone be glisten on every side so that it be a joy to see they , and together they gather the finest and costliest of they . now , the old woman have , through she sorcery , contrived that the eye of the huntsman should become heavy . he say to the maiden , `` we will sit down and rest awhile , I be so tired that I can no longer stand on my foot . '' then they sit down , and he lay he head in she lap , and fall asleep . when he be asleep , she unfasten the mantle from he shoulder , and wrap herself in it , pick up the garnet and stone , and wish herself back at home with they . but when the huntsman have have he sleep out and awake , and perceive that he sweetheart have betray he , and leave he alone on the wild mountain , he say , `` oh , what treachery there be in the world ! '' and sit down there in care and sorrow , not know what to do . but the mountain belong to some wild and monstrous giant who dwell thereon and live they life there , and he have not sit long before he see three of they come towards he , so he lay down as if he be sink in a deep sleep . then the giant come up , and the first kick he with he foot and say , `` what sort of a earth-worm be lie curl up here ? '' the second say , `` step upon he and kill he . '' but the third say , `` that would indeed be worth you while ; just let he live , he can not remain here ; and when he climb higher , toward the summit of of the mountain , the cloud will lay hold of he and bear he away . '' so say they pass by . but the huntsman have pay heed to they word , and as soon as they be go , he rise and climb up to the summit of the mountain , and when he have sit there a while , a cloud float towards he , catch he up , carry he away , and travel about for a long time in the heaven . then it sink lower , and let itself down on a great cabbage-garden , girt round by wall , so that he come softly to the ground on cabbage and vegetable . then the huntsman look about he and say , `` if I have but something to eat ! I be so hungry , and my hunger will increase in course of time ; but I see here neither apple nor pear , nor any other sort of fruit , everywhere nothing but cabbage , '' but at length he think , `` at a pinch I can eat some of the leaf , they do not taste particularly good , but they will refresh I . '' with that he pick himself out a fine head of cabbage , and eat it , but scarcely have he swallow a couple of mouthful than he feel very strange and quite different . four leg grow on he , a large head and two thick ear , and he see with horror that he be change into a ass . still as he hunger increase every minute , and as the juicy leaf be suitable to he present nature , he go on eating with great zest . at last he arrive at a different kind of cabbage , but as soon as he have swallow it , he again feel a change , and reassume he former human shape . then the huntsman lay down and sleep off he fatigue . when he awake next morning , he break off one head of the bad cabbage and another of the good one , and think to himself , `` this shall help I to get my own again and punish treachery . '' then he take the cabbage with he , climb over the wall , and go forth to seek for the castle of he sweetheart . after wander about for a couple of day he be lucky enough to find it again . he dye he face brown , so that he own mother would not have know he ; and beg for shelter : `` I be so tired , '' say he , `` that I can go no further . '' the witch ask , `` who be you , countryman , and what be you business ? '' `` I be a King 's messenger , and be send out to seek the most delicious salad which grow beneath the sun . I have even be so fortunate as to find it , and be carry it about with I ; but the heat of the sun be so intense that the delicate cabbage threaten to wither , and I do not know if I can carry it any further . '' when the old woman hear of the exquisite salad , she be greedy , and say , `` dear countryman , let I just taste this wonderful salad . '' `` why not ? '' answer he , `` I have bring two head with I , and will give you one of they , '' and he open he pouch and hand she the bad cabbage . the witch suspect nothing amiss , and she mouth water so for this new dish that she herself go into the kitchen and dress it . when it be prepare she could not wait until it be set on the table , but take a couple of leaf at once , and put they in she mouth , but hardly have she swallow they than she be deprive of she human shape , and she run out into the courtyard in the form of a ass . presently the maid-servant enter the kitchen , see the salad standing there ready prepared , and be about to carry it up ; but on the way , accord to habit , she be seize by the desire to taste , and she eat a couple of leaf . instantly the magic power show itself , and she likewise become a ass and run out to the old woman , and the dish of salad fall to the ground . meantime the messenger sit beside the beautiful girl , and as no one come with the salad and she also be longing for it , she say , `` I do not know what have become of the salad . '' the huntsman thought , `` the salad must have already take effect , '' and say , `` I will go to the kitchen and inquire about it . '' as he go down he see the two ass run about in the courtyard ; the salad , however , be lie on the ground . `` all right , '' say he , `` the two have take they portion , '' and he pick up the other leaf , lay they on the dish , and carry they to the maiden . `` I bring you the delicate food myself , '' say he , `` in order that you may not have to wait longer . '' then she eat of it , and be , like the other , immediately deprive of she human form , and run out into the courtyard in the shape of a ass . after the huntsman have wash he face , so that the transform one could recognize he , he go down into the courtyard , and say , `` now you shall receive the wages of you treachery , '' and bind they together , all three with one rope , and drive they along until he come to a mill . he knock at the window , the miller put out he head , and ask what he want . `` I have three unmanageable beast , '' answer he , `` which I do not want to keep any longer . Will you take they in , and give they food and stable room , and manage they as I tell you , and then I will pay you what you ask . '' the miller say , `` why not ? but how be I to manage they ? '' the huntsman then say that he be to give three beating and one meal daily to the old donkey , and that be the witch ; one beating and three meal to the younger one , which be the servant-girl ; and to the youngest , which be the maiden , no beating and three meal , for he could not bring himself to have the maiden beat . after that he go back into the castle , and find therein everything he need . after a couple of day , the miller come and say he must inform he that the old ass which have receive three beating and only one meal daily be dead ; `` the two other , '' he continue , `` be certainly not dead , and be feed three time daily , but they be so sad that they can not last much longer . '' the huntsman be move to pity , put away he anger , and tell the miller to drive they back again to he . and when they come , he give they some of the good salad , so that they become human again . the beautiful girl fall on she knee before he , and say , `` ah , my beloved , forgive I for the evil I have do you ; my mother drive I to it ; it be do against my will , for I love you dearly . you wishing-cloak hang in a cupboard , and as for the bird 's - heart I will take a vomit potion . '' but he think otherwise , and say , `` keep it ; it be all the same , for I will take thee for my true wife . '' so the wedding be celebrate , and they live happily together until they death .