everything in ITS RIGHT PLACE . H. C. Andersen it be more than a hundred year ago . behind the wood , by the great lake , stand the old baronial mansion . Round about it lay a deep moat , in which grow reed and grass . close by the bridge , near the entrance-gate , rise a old willow tree that bent over the reed . up from the hollow lane sound the clang of horn and the trampling of horse ; therefore the little girl who keep the goose hasten to drive she charge away from the bridge , before the hunting company should come gallopp up . they draw near with such speed that the girl be oblige to climb up in a hurry , and perch herself on the coping-stone of the bridge , lest she should be ride down . she be still half a child , and have a pretty light figure , and a gentle expression in she face , with two clear blue eye . the noble baron take no note of this , but as he gallopp past the little goose-herd , he reverse the whip he hold in he hand , and in rough sport give she such a push in the chest with the butt-end , that she fall backwards into the ditch . `` everything in its place , '' he cry ; `` into the puddle with you ! '' and he laugh aloud , for this be intend for wit , and the company join in he mirth : the whole party shout and clamour , and the dog bark they loudest . fortunately for herself , the poor girl in fall seize one of the hanging branch of the willow tree , by means of which she keep herself suspend over the muddy water , and as soon as the baron and he company have disappear through the castle-gate , the girl try to scramble up again ; but the bough break off at the top , and she would have fall backward among the reed , if a strong hand from above have not at that moment seize she . it be the hand of a pedlar , who have see from a short distance what have happen , and who now hurry up to give aid . `` everything in its right place , '' he say , mimic the gracious baron ; and he draw the little maiden up to the firm ground . he would have restore the broken branch to the place from which it have be tear , but `` everything in its place '' can not always be manage , and therefore he stick the piece in the ground . `` grow and prosper till you can furnish a good flute for they up yonder , '' he say ; for he would have like to play the `` rogue 's march '' for my lord the baron , and my lord 's whole family . and then he betake himself to the castle , but not into the ancestral hall , he be too humble for that ! he go to the servant ' quarter , and the man and maid turn over he stock of goods , and bargain with he ; and from above , where the guest be at table , come a sound of roaring and scream that be intend for song , and indeed they do they best . loud laughter , mingle with the bark and howl of dog , sound through the window , for there be feast and carouse up yonder . wine and strong old ale foam in the jug and glass , and the dog sit with they master and dine with they . they have the pedlar summon upstairs , but only to make fun of he . the wine have mount into they head , and the sense have fly out . they pour wine into a stock , that the pedlar might drink with they , but that he must drink quickly ; that be consider a rare jest , and be a cause of fresh laughter . and then whole farm , with ox and peasant too , be stake on a card , and win and lose . `` everything in its right place ! '' say the pedlar , when he have at last make he escape out of what he call `` the Sodom and Gomorrah up yonder . '' `` the open high-road be my right place , '' he say ; `` I do not feel at all happy there . '' and the little maiden who sit keep the goose nod at he in a friendly way , as he stride along beside the hedge . and day and week go by ; and it become manifest that the willow branch which the pedlar have stick into the ground by the castle moat remain fresh and green , and even bring forth new twig . the little goose-girl see that the branch must have take root , and rejoice greatly at the circumstance ; for this tree , she say , be now she tree . the tree certainly come forward well ; but everything else belong to the castle go very rapidly back , what with feasting and gambling -- for these two thing be like wheel , upon which no man can stand securely . six year have not pass away before the noble lord pass out of the castle-gate , a beggared man , and the mansion be buy by a rich dealer ; and this purchaser be the very man who have once be make a jest of there , for whom wine have be pour into a stock ; but honesty and industry be good wind to speed a vessel ; and now the dealer be possessor of the baronial estate . but from that hour no more card-playing be permit there . `` that be bad reading , '' say he : `` when the Evil one see a Bible for the first time , he want to put a bad book against it , and invent card-playing . '' the new proprietor take a wife ; and who might that be but the goose-girl , who have always be faithful and good , and look as beautiful and fine in she new clothes as if she have be bear a great lady . and how do all this come about ? that be too long a story for we busy time , but it really happen , and the most important part be to come . it be a good thing now to be in the old mansion . the mother manage the domestic affair , and the father superintend the estate , and it seem as if blessing be stream down . where rectitude enter in , prosperity be sure to follow . the old house be clean and paint , the ditch be clear and fruit tree plant . Everything wear a bright cheerful look , and the floor be as polish as a draught board . in the long winter evening the lady sit at the spinning-wheel with she maid , and every Sunday evening there be a reading from the Bible , by the Councillor of Justice himself -- this title the dealer have gain , though it be only in he old age . the child grow up -- for child have come -- and they receive the best education , though all have not equal ability , as we find indeed in all family . in the meantime the willow branch at the castle-gate have grow to be a splendid tree , which stand there free and self-sustained . `` that be we genealogical tree , '' the old people say , and the tree be to be honor and respect -- so they tell all the child , even those who have not very good head . and a hundred year roll by . it be in we own time . the lake have be convert to moorland , and the old mansion have almost disappear . a pool of water and the ruin of some wall , this be all that be leave of the old baronial castle , with its deep moat ; and here stand also a magnificent old willow , with pendent bough , which seem to show how beautiful a tree may be if leave to itself . the main stem be certainly split from the root to the crown , and the storm have bow the noble tree a little ; but it stand firm for all that , and from every cleft into which wind and weather have carry a portion of earth , grass and flower spring forth : especially near the top , where the great branch part , a sort of hang garden have be form of wild raspberry bush , and even a small quantity of mistletoe have take root , and stand , slender and graceful , in the midst of the old willow which be mirror in the dark water . a field-path lead close by the old tree . High by the forest hill , with a splendid prospect in every direction , stand the new baronial hall , large and magnificent , with pane of glass so clearly transparent , that it look as if there be no pane there at all . the grand flight of step that lead to the entrance look like a bower of rose and broad-leaved plant . the lawn be as freshly green as if each separate blade of grass be clean morning and evening . in the hall hang costly picture ; silken chair and sofa stand there , so easy that they look almost as if they could run by themselves ; there be table of great marble slab , and book bind in morocco and gold . yes , truly , wealthy people live here , people of rank : the baron with he family . all thing here correspond with each other . the motto be still `` everything in its right place ; '' and therefore all the picture which have be put up in the old house for honor and glory , hang now in the passage that lead to the servant ' hall : they be consider as old lumber , and especially two old portrait , one represent a man in a pink coat and powdered wig , the other a lady with powdered hair and hold a rose in she hand , and each surround with a wreath of willow leaf . these two picture be pierce with many hole , because the little baron be in the habit of set up the old people as a mark for they cross-bows . the picture represent the Councillor of Justice and he lady , the founder of the present family . `` but they do not properly belong to we family , '' say one of the little baron . `` he be a dealer , and she have keep the goose . they be not like papa and mamma . '' the picture be pronounce to be worthless ; and as the motto be `` everything in its right place , '' the great-grandmother and great-grandfather have be send into the passage that lead to the servant ' hall . the son of the neighbouring clergyman be tutor in the great house . one day he be out walk with he pupil , the little baron and they eldest sister , who have just be confirm ; they come along the field-path , past the old willow , and as they walk on the young lady bind a wreath of field flower , `` everything in its right place , '' and the flower form a pretty whole . at the same time she hear every word that be speak , and she like to hear the clergyman 's son talk of the power of nature and of the great man and woman in history . she have a good hearty disposition , with true nobility of thought and soul , and a heart full of love for all that God hath create . the party come to a halt at the old willow tree . the youngest baron insist on have such a flute cut for he from it as he have have make of other willow . accordingly the tutor break off a branch . `` oh , do not do that ! '' cry the young baroness ; but it be do already . `` that be we famous old tree , '' she continue , `` and I love it dearly . they laugh at I at home for this , but I do not mind . there be a story attach to this tree . '' and she tell what we all know about the tree , about the old mansion , the pedlar and the goose-girl , who have meet for the first time in this spot , and have afterwards become the founder of the noble family to which the young baron belong . `` they would not be ennoble , the good old folk ! '' she say . `` they keep to the motto ` everything in its right place ; ' and accordingly they think it would be out of place for they to purchase a title with money . my grandfather , the first baron , be they son : he be say to have be a very learn man , very popular with prince and princess , and a frequent guest at the court festival . the other at home love he best ; but , I do not know how , there seem to I something about that first pair that draw my heart towards they . how comfortable , how patriarchal it must have be in the old house , where the mistress sit at the spinning-wheel among she maid , and the old master read aloud from the Bible ! '' `` they be charming , sensible people , '' say the clergyman 's son ; and with this the conversation naturally fall upon noble and citizen . the young man scarcely seem to belong to the citizen class , so well do he speak concern the purpose and meaning of nobility . he say , `` it be a great thing to belong to a family that have distinguish itself , and thus to have , as it be , in one 's blood , a spur that urge one on to make progress in all that be good . it be delightful to have a name that serve as a card of admission into the highest circle . nobility mean that which be great and noble : it be a coin that have receive a stamp to indicate what it be worth . it be the fallacy of the time , and many poet have frequently maintain this fallacy , that nobility of birth be accompany by foolishness , and that the lower you go among the poor , the more do everything around shine . but that be not my view , for I consider it entirely false . in the higher class many beautiful and kindly trait be find . my mother tell I one of this kind , and I could tell you many other . `` my mother be on a visit to a great family in town . my grandmother , I think , have be housekeeper to the count 's mother . the great nobleman and my mother be alone in the room , when the former noticed that a old woman come limp on crutch into the courtyard . indeed , she be accustom to come every Sunday , and carry away a gift with she . ` ah , there be the poor old lady , ' say the nobleman : ` walking be a great toil to she ; ' and before my mother understand what he mean , he have go out of the room and run down the stair , to save the old woman the toilsome walk , by carry to she the gift she have come to receive . `` now , that be only a small circumstance , but , like the widow 's two mite in the Scripture , it have a sound that find a echo in the depths of the heart in human nature ; and these be the thing the poet should show and point out ; especially in these time should he sing of it , for that do good , and pacify and unite man . but where a bit of mortality , because it have a genealogical tree and a coat of arm , rear up like a arabian horse , and prance in the street , and say in the room , ` people out of the street have be here , ' when a commoner have be -- that be nobility in decay , and become a mere mask -- a mask of the kind that thespi create ; and people be glad when such a one be turn into satire . '' this be the speech of the clergyman 's son . it be certainly rather long , but then the flute be be finish while he make it . at the castle there be a great company . many guest come from the neighborhood and from the capital . many lady , some tastefully , and other tastelessly dress , be there , and the great hall be quite full of people . the clergyman from the neighborhood stand respectfully congregate in a corner , which make it look almost as if there be to be a burial there . but it be not so , for this be a party of pleasure , only that the pleasure have not yet begin . a great concert be to be perform , and consequently the little baron have bring in he willow flute ; but he could not get a note out of it , nor could he papa , and therefore the flute be worth nothing . there be instrumental music and song , both of the kind that delight the performer most -- quite charming ! `` you be a performer ? '' say a cavalier -- he father 's son and nothing else -- to the tutor . `` you play the flute and make it too -- that be genius . that should command , and should have the place of honor ! '' `` no indeed , '' reply the young man , `` I only advance with the time , as every one be oblige to do . '' `` oh , you will enchant we with the little instrument , will you not ? '' and with these word he hand to the clergyman 's son the flute cut from the willow tree by the pool , and announce aloud that the tutor be about to perform a solo on that instrument . now , they only want to make fun of he , that be easily see ; and therefore the tutor would not play , though indeed he could do so very well ; but they crowd round he and importune he so strongly , that at last he take the flute and put it to he lip . that be a wonderful flute ! a sound , as sustain as that which be emit by the whistle of a steam engine , and much stronger , echo far over courtyard , garden , and wood , mile away into the country ; and simultaneously with the tone come a rush wind that roar , `` everything in its right place ! '' and papa fly as if carry by the wind straight out of the hall and into the shepherd 's cot ; and the shepherd fly , not into the hall , for there he could not come -- no , but into the room of the servant , among the smart lacquey who strut about there in silk stocking ; and the proud servant be strike motionless with horror at the thought that such a personage dare to sit down to table with they . but in the hall the young baroness fly up to the place of honor at the top of the table , where she be worthy to sit ; and the young clergyman 's son have a seat next to she ; and there the two sit as if they be a newly-married pair . a old count of one of the most ancient family in the country remain untouched in he place of honor ; for the flute be just , as man ought to be . the witty cavalier , the son of he father and nothing else , who have be the cause of the flute-playing , fly head-over-heels into the poultry-house -- but not alone . for a whole mile round about the sound of the flute be hear , and singular event take place . a rich banker 's family , drive along in a coach and four , be blow quite out of the carriage , and could not even find a place on the footboard at the back . two rich peasant who in we time have grow too high for they corn-fields , be tumble into the ditch . it be a dangerous flute , that : luckily , it burst at the first note , and that be a good thing , for then it be put back into the owner 's pocket . `` everything in its right place . '' the day afterwards not a word be say about this marvellous event ; and thence have come the expression `` pocket the flute . '' everything be in its usual order , only that the two old portrait of the dealer and the goose-girl hang on the wall in the banquet hall . they have be blow up yonder , and as one of the real connoisseur say they have be paint by a master 's hand , they remain where they be , and be restore . `` everything in its right place . '' and to that it will come ; for _ hereafter _ be long -- longer than this story .