6 Faithful John BrothersS Grimm there be once on a time a old king who be ill , and think to himself , `` I be lie on what must be my death-bed . '' then say he , `` tell Faithful John to come to I . '' Faithful John be he favorite servant , and be so call , because he have for he whole life long be so true to he . when therefore he come beside the bed , the King say to he , `` most faithful John , I feel my end approach , and have no anxiety except about my son . he be still of tender age , and can not always know how to guide himself . if thou dost not promise I to teach he everything that he ought to know , and to be he foster-father , I can not close my eye in peace . '' then answer Faithful John , `` I will not forsake he , and will serve he with fidelity , even if it should cost I my life . '' on this , the old King say , `` now I die in comfort and peace . '' then he add , `` after my death , thou shalt show he the whole castle : all the chamber , hall , and vault , and all the treasure which lie therein , but the last chamber in the long gallery , in which be the picture of the princess of the Golden Dwelling , shalt thou not show . if he see that picture , he will fall violently in love with she , and will drop down in a swoon , and go through great danger for she sake , therefore thou must preserve he from that . '' and when Faithful John have once more give he promise to the old king about this , the King say no more , but lay he head on he pillow , and die . when the old King have be carry to he grave , Faithful John tell the young King all that he have promise he father on he deathbed , and say , `` this will I assuredly perform , and will be faithful to thee as I have be faithful to he , even if it should cost I my life . '' when the mourn be over , Faithful John say to he , `` it be now time that thou shouldst see thine inheritance . I will show thee thy father 's palace . '' then he take he about everywhere , up and down , and let he see all the riches , and the magnificent apartment , only there be one room which he do not open , that in which hang the dangerous picture . the picture be , however , so place that when the door be open you look straight on it , and it be so admirably paint that it seem to breathe and live , and there be nothing more charming or more beautiful in the whole world . the young King , however , plainly remark that Faithful John always walk past this one door , and say , `` why dost thou never open this one for I ? '' `` there be something within it , '' he reply , `` which would terrify thee . '' but the King answer , `` I have see all the palace , and I will know what be in this room also , '' and he go and try to break open the door by force . then Faithful John hold he back and say , `` I promise thy father before he death that thou shouldst not see that which be in this chamber , it might bring the greatest misfortune on thee and on I . '' `` ah , no , '' reply the young King , `` if I do not go in , it will be my certain destruction . I should have no rest day or night until I have see it with my own eye . I shall not leave the place now until thou hast unlock the door . '' then Faithful John see that there be no help for it now , and with a heavy heart and many sigh , seek out the key from the great bunch . when he have open the door , he go in first , and think by stand before he he could hide the portrait so that the King should not see it in front of he , but what avail that ? the King stand on tip-toe and see it over he shoulder . and when he see the portrait of the maiden , which be so magnificent and shone with gold and precious stone , he fall faint to the ground . Faithful John take he up , carry he to he bed , and sorrowfully think , `` the misfortune have befall we , Lord God , what will be the end of it ? '' then he strengthen he with wine , until he come to himself again . the first word the King say be , `` ah , the beautiful portrait ! whose it it ? '' `` that be the princess of the Golden Dwelling , '' answer Faithful John . then the King continue , `` my love for she be so great , that if all the leaf on all the tree be tongue , they could not declare it . I will give my life to win she . Thou art my most Faithful John , thou must help I . '' the faithful servant consider within himself for a long time how to set about the matter , for it be difficult even to obtain a sight of the King 's daughter . at length he think of a way , and say to the King , `` everything which she have about she be of gold -- table , chair , dish , glass , bowl , and household furniture . among thy treasure be five ton of gold ; let one of the goldsmith of the Kingdom work these up into all manner of vessel and utensil , into all kind of bird , wild beast and strange animal , such as may please she , and we will go there with they and try we luck . '' the King order all the goldsmith to be bring to he , and they have to work night and day until at last the most splendid thing be prepare . when everything be stow on board a ship , Faithful John put on the dress of a merchant , and the King be force to do the same in order to make himself quite unrecognizable . then they sail across the sea , and sail on until they come to the town wherein dwell the princess of the Golden Dwelling . Faithful John bid the King stay behind on the ship , and wait for he . `` perhaps I shall bring the princess with I , '' say he , `` therefore see that everything be in order ; have the golden vessel set out and the whole ship decorate . '' then he gather together in he apron all kind of gold thing , go on shore and walk straight to the royal palace . when he enter the courtyard of the palace , a beautiful girl be stand there by the well with two golden bucket in she hand , draw water with they . and when she be just turn round to carry away the sparkling water she see the stranger , and ask who he be . so he answer , `` I be a merchant , '' and open he apron , and let she look in . then she cry , `` oh , what beautiful gold thing ! '' and put she pail down and look at the golden wares one after the other . then say the girl , `` the princess must see these , she have such great pleasure in golden thing , that she will buy all you have . '' she take he by the hand and lead he upstairs , for she be the waiting-maid . when the King 's daughter see the wares , she be quite delighted and say , `` they be so beautifully work , that I will buy they all of thee . '' but Faithful John say , `` I be only the servant of a rich merchant . the thing I have here be not to be compare with those my master have in he ship . they be the most beautiful and valuable thing that have ever be make in gold . '' she want to have everything bring to she there , but he say , `` there be so many of they that it would take a great many day to do that , and so many room would be require to exhibit they , that you house be not big enough . '' then she curiosity and longing be still more excited , until at last she say , `` Conduct I to the ship , I will go there myself , and behold the treasure of thine master . '' on this Faithful John be quite delighted , and lead she to the ship , and when the King see she , he perceive that she beauty be even greater than the picture have represent it to be , and think no other than that he heart would burst in twain . then she get into the ship , and the King lead she within . Faithful John , however , remain behind with the pilot , and order the ship to be push off , say , `` set all sail , till it fly like a bird in air . '' within , however , the King show she the golden vessel , every one of they , also the wild beast and strange animal . many hour go by whilst she be see everything , and in she delight she do not observe that the ship be sail away . after she have look at the last , she thank the merchant and want to go home , but when she come to the side of the ship , she see that it be on the deep sea far from land , and hurry onward with all sail set . `` ah , '' cry she in she alarm , `` I be betray ! I be carry away and have fall into the power of a merchant -- I would die rather ! '' the King , however , seize she hand , and say , `` I be not a merchant . I be a king , and of no meaner origin than thou art , and if I have carry thee away with subtlety , that have come to pass because of my exceed great love for thee . the first time that I look on thy portrait , I fall faint to the ground . '' when the princess of the Golden Dwelling hear that , she be comfort , and she heart be incline unto he , so that she willingly consent to be he wife . it so happen , however , while they be sail onward over the deep sea , that Faithful John , who be sit on the fore part of the vessel , make music , see three raven in the air , which come fly towards they . on this he stop play and listen to what they be say to each other , for that he well understand . one cried , `` oh , there he be carry home the princess of the Golden Dwelling . '' `` yes , '' reply the second , `` but he have not get she yet . '' Said the third , `` but he have get she , she be sit beside he in the ship . '' then the first begin again , and cry , `` what good will that do he ? when they reach land a chestnut horse will leap forward to meet he , and the prince will want to mount it , but if he do that , it will run away with he , and rise up into the air with he , and he will never see he maiden more . '' speak the second , `` but be there no escape ? '' `` oh , yes , if any one else get on it swiftly , and take out the pistol which must be in its holster , and shoot the horse dead with it , the young King be save . but who know that ? and whosoever do know it , and tell it to he , will be turn to stone from the toe to the knee . '' then say the second , `` I know more than that ; even if the horse be kill , the young King will still not keep he bride . when they go into the castle together , a work bridal garment will be lie there in a dish , and look as if it be weave of gold and silver ; it be , however , nothing but sulphur and pitch , and if he put it on , it will burn he to the very bone and marrow . '' Said the third , `` be there no escape at all ? '' `` oh , yes , '' reply the second , `` if any one with glove on seize the garment and throw it into the fire and burn it , the young King will be save . `` but what avail that ? '' `` Whosoever know it and tell it to he , half he body will become stone from the knee to the heart . '' then say the third , `` I know still more ; even if the bridal garment be burn , the young King will still not have he bride . after the wedding , when the dancing begin and the young queen be dance , she will suddenly turn pale and fall down as if dead , and if some one do not lift she up and draw three drop of blood from she right breast and spit they out again , she will die . but if any one who know that be to declare it , he would become stone from the crown of he head to the sole of he foot . '' when the raven have speak of this together , they fly onward , and Faithful John have well understand everything , but from that time forth he become quiet and sad , for if he conceal what he have hear from he master , the latter would be unfortunate , and if he discover it to he , he himself must sacrifice he life . at length , however , he say to himself , `` I will save my master , even if it bring destruction on myself . '' when therefore they come to shore , all happen as have be foretell by the raven , and a magnificent chestnut horse spring forward . `` good , '' say the King , `` he shall carry I to my palace , '' and be about to mount it when Faithful John get before he , jump quickly on it , draw the pistol out of the holster , and shoot the horse . then the other attendant of the King , who after all be not very fond of Faithful John , cry , `` how shameful to kill the beautiful animal , that be to have carry the King to he palace . '' but the King say , `` hold you peace and leave he alone , he be my most faithful John , who know what may be the good of that ! '' they go into the palace , and in the hall there stand a dish , and therein lay the bridal garment look no otherwise than as if it be make of gold and silver . the young King go towards it and be about to take hold of it , but Faithful John push he away , seize it with glove on , carry it quickly to the fire and burnt it . the other attendant again begin to murmur , and say , `` Behold , now he be even burn the King 's bridal garment ! '' but the young King say , `` who know what good he may have do , leave he alone , he be my most faithful John . '' and now the wedding be solemnize : the dance begin , and the bride also take part in it ; then Faithful John be watchful and look into she face , and suddenly she turn pale and fall to the ground , as if she be dead . on this he run hastily to she , lift she up and bear she into a chamber -- then he lay she down , and knelt and suck the three drop of blood from she right breast , and spit they out . immediately she breathe again and recover herself , but the young King have see this , and be ignorant why Faithful John have do it , be angry and cried , `` throw he into a dungeon . '' next morning Faithful John be condemn , and lead to the gallows , and when he stand on high , and be about to be execute , he say , `` every one who have to die be permit before he end to make one last speech ; may I too claim the right ? '' `` yes , '' answer the King , `` it shall be grant unto thee . '' then say Faithful John , `` I be unjustly condemn , and have always be true to thee , '' and he relate how he have hearken to the conversation of the raven when on the sea , and how he have be oblige to do all these thing in order to save he master . then cry the King , `` oh , my most Faithful John . pardon , pardon -- bring he down . '' but as Faithful John speak the last word he have fall down lifeless and become a stone . Thereupon the King and the Queen suffer great anguish , and the King say , `` ah , how ill I have requite great fidelity ! '' and order the stone figure to be take up and place in he bedroom beside he bed . and as often as he look on it he weep and say , `` ah , if I could bring thee to life again , my most faithful John . '' some time pass and the Queen bear twin , two son who grow fast and be she delight . once when the Queen be at church and the two child be sit playing beside they father , the latter full of grief again look at the stone figure , sigh and say , `` ah , if I could but bring thee to life again , my most faithful John . '' then the stone begin to speak and say , `` Thou canst bring I to life again if thou wilt use for that purpose what be dearest to thee . '' then cry the King , `` I will give everything I have in the world for thee . '' the stone continue , `` if thou wilt will cut off the head of thy two child with thine own hand , and sprinkle I with they blood , I shall be restore to life . '' the King be terrify when he hear that he himself must kill he dearest child , but he think of faithful John 's great fidelity , and how he have die for he , draw he sword , and with he own hand cut off the child 's head . and when he have smear the stone with they blood , life return to it , and Faithful John stand once more safe and healthy before he . he say to the King , `` thy truth shall not go unrewarded , '' and take the head of the child , put they on again , and rub the wound with they blood , on which they become whole again immediately , and jump about , and go on playing as if nothing have happen . then the King be full of joy , and when he see the Queen come he hide Faithful John and the two child in a great cupboard . when she enter , he say to she , `` hast thou be pray in the church ? '' `` yes , '' answer she , `` but I have constantly be think of Faithful John and what misfortune have befall he through we . '' then say he , `` dear wife , we can give he he life again , but it will cost we we two little son , whom we must sacrifice . '' the Queen turn pale , and she heart be full of terror , but she say , `` we owe it to he , for he great fidelity . '' then the King be rejoice that she think as he have think , and go and open the cupboard , and bring forth Faithful John and the child , and say , `` God be praise , he be deliver , and we have we little son again also , '' and tell she how everything have occur . then they dwell together in much happiness until they death .