FATTY visit the SMOKE-HOUSE Arthur Scott Bailey the winter be fast go . and one fine day in February Fatty Coon creep out of he mother 's house to enjoy the warm sunshine -- and see what he could find to eat . Fatty be much thinner than he have be in the fall . he have spend so much of the time sleep that he have really eat very little . and now he hardly know himself as he look at he side . they no longer stick out as they have once . after nose about the swamp and the wood all the afternoon Fatty decide that there be no use in try to get a meal there . the ground be cover with snow . and except for rabbit track -- and a few squirrel ' -- he could find nothing that even suggest food . and look at those track only make he hungrier than ever . for a few minute Fatty think deeply . and then he turn about and go straight toward Farmer Green 's place . he wait behind the fence just beyond Farmer Green 's house ; and when it begin to grow dark he creep across the barnyard . as Fatty pass a small , low building he notice a delicious smell . and he stop right there . he have go far enough . the door be open a little way . and after one quick look all around -- to make sure there be nobody to see he -- Fatty slip inside . it be almost dark inside Farmer Green 's smokehouse -- for that be what the small , low building be call . it be almost dark ; but Fatty could see just as well as you and I can see in the daytime . there be a long row of ham hang up in a line . underneath they be white ash , where Farmer Green have build wood fire , to smoke the ham . but the fire be out , now ; and Fatty be in no danger of be burn . the ham be what Fatty Coon have smell . and the ham be what Fatty intend to eat . he decide that he would eat they all -- though of course he could never have do that -- at least , not in one night ; nor in a week , either . but when it come to eating , Fatty 's courage never fail he . he would have try to eat a elephant , if he have have the chance . Fatty do not stop to look long at that row of ham . he climb a post that run up the side of the house and he creep out along the pole from which the ham be hang . he stop at the very first ham he come to . there be no sense in go any further . and Fatty drop on top of the ham and in a twinkling he have tear off a big , delicious mouthful . Fatty could not eat fast enough . he wish he have two mouth -- he be so hungry . but he do very well , with only one . in no time at all he have make a great hole in the ham . and he have no idea of stop . but he do stop . he stop very suddenly . for the first thing he know , something throw he right down upon the floor . and the ham fall on top of he and nearly knock he senseless . he choke and splutter ; for the ash fill he mouth and he eye , and he ear , too . for a moment he lay there on he back ; but soon he manage to kick the heavy ham off he stomach and then he feel a little better . but he be terribly frightened . and though he eye smart so he could hardly see , he spring up and find the doorway . Fatty swallow a whole mouthful of ash as he dash across the barnyard . and he never stop run until he be almost home . he be puzzle . try as he would , he could not decide what it be that have fling he upon the floor . and when he tell he mother about he adventure -- as he do a whole month later -- she do not know exactly what have happen , either . `` it be some sort of trap , probably , '' Mrs. Coon say . but for once Mrs. Coon be mistake . it be very simple . in he greedy haste Fatty have merely bite through the cord that fasten the ham to the pole . and of course it have at once fall , carry Fatty with it ! but what do you suppose ? afterward , when Fatty have grow up , and have child of he own , he often tell they about the time he have escape from the trap in Farmer Green 's smokehouse . Fatty 's child think it very exciting . it be they favorite story . and they make they father tell it over and over again .