FATTY learn something ABOUT EGGS Arthur Scott Bailey when Fatty Coon start off alone to find something more to eat , after finish the fish that he mother have bring home for he , he do not know that he be go to have a adventure . he nose about among the bush and the tall grass and catch a few bug and a frog or two . but he do not think that that be much . he do not seem to have much luck , down on the ground . so he climb a tall hemlock , to see if he could find a squirrel 's nest , or some bird 's egg . Fatty love to climb tree . up in the big hemlock he forget , for a time , that he be still hungry . it be delightful to feel the branch sway under he , and the bright sunshine be warm upon he back . he climb almost to the very tip-top of the tree and wind himself around the straight stem . the thick , springy branch hold he safely , and soon Fatty be fast asleep . next to eating , Fatty love sleep . and now he have a good nap . Fatty Coon wake up at last , yawned , and slowly unwound himself from the stem of the tree . he be terribly hungry now . and he feel that he simply must find something to eat at once . without go down to the ground , Fatty climb over into the top of another big tree and he little beady , bright eye begin search all the branch carefully . Pretty soon Fatty smile . he smile because he be please . and he be pleased because he see exactly what he have be look for . not far below he be a big nest , build of stick and line with bark and moss . it be a crow 's nest , Fatty decide , and he lose no time in slip down to the crotch of the tree where the nest be perch . there be four white egg in the nest -- the biggest crow 's egg Fatty have ever see . and he begin to eat they hungrily . he nose become smear with egg , but he do not mind that at all . he keep think how good the egg taste -- and how he wish there be more of they . there be a sudden rush through the branch of the tall tree . and Fatty Coon catch a hard blow on he head . he feel something sharp sink into he back , too . and he clutch at the edge of the nest to keep from fall . Fatty be surprise , to say the least , for he have never know crow to fight like that . and he be frighten , because he back hurt . he could not fight , because he be afraid he would fall if he let go of the nest . there be nothing to do but run home as fast as he could . Fatty try to hurry ; but there be that bird , beating and claw he back , and pull he first one way and then another . he begin to think he would never reach home . but at last he come to the old poplar where he mother live . and soon , to he great joy , he reach the hole in the big branch ; and you may well believe that Fatty be glad to slip down into the darkness where he mother , and he brother Blackie , and Fluffy and Cutey he sister , be all fast asleep . he be glad , because he know that no crow could follow he down there . Mrs. Coon wake up . she see that Fatty 's back be sadly tear -lrb-B- for coon , you know , can see in the dark just as well as you can see in the daylight -rrb-B- . `` what on earth be the matter ? '' she exclaim . Poor Fatty tell she . he cry a little , because he back hurt he , and because he be so glad to be safe at home once more . `` what color be those egg ? '' Mrs. Coon inquire . `` White ! '' say Fatty . `` ah , ha ! '' Mrs. Coon say . `` do not you remember that crow ' egg be a blueish green ? that must have be a goshawk 's nest . and a goshawk be the fiercest of all the hawk there be . it be no wonder you back be claw . come here and let I look at it . '' Fatty Coon feel quite proud , as he mother examine the mark of the goshawk 's cruel claw . and he do not feel half as sorry for himself as you might think , for he remember how good the egg have taste . he only wish there have be a dozen of they .