FATTY COON be MISTAKE Arthur Scott Bailey Fatty Coon be very fond of squirrel . and you may think it strange when I tell you that not one of the squirrel anywhere around Blue Mountain be the least bit fond of Fatty Coon . but when I say that Fatty Coon be fond of squirrel , I mean that he like to eat they . so of course you will understand now why the squirrel do not care for Fatty at all . in fact , they usually keep just as far away from he as they could . it be easy , in the daytime , for the squirrel to keep out of Fatty 's way , when he wander through the tree-tops , for the squirrel be much sprier than Fatty . but at night -- ah ! that be a very different matter . for Fatty Coon 's eye be even sharper in the dark than they be in the daylight ; but the poor squirrel be just as blind as you be when you be safely tuck in bed and the light be put out . Yes -- when the squirrel be in bed at night , up in they nest in the tree , they could see very little . and you could not say they be SAFE in bed , because they never know when Fatty Coon , or he mother , or he brother , or one of he sister , or some cousin of he , might come along and catch they before they know it . Fatty think it great sport to hunt squirrel at night . Whenever he try it he usually manage to get a good meal . and after he have almost forget about the fright the goshawk have give he in the tall hemlock he begin to roam through the tree-tops every night in search of squirrel and sleep bird . but a night come at last when Fatty be well punish for hunting squirrel . he have climb half-way to the top of a big chestnut tree , when he spy a hole in the trunk . he rather think that some squirrel live inside that hole . and as he listen for a few seconds he could hear something move about inside . yes ! Fatty be sure that there be a squirrel in there -- probably several squirrel . Fatty Coon 's eye turn green . it be a way they have , whenever he be about to eat anything , or whenever he play with he brother Blackie , or Fluffy and Cutey , he sister ; or whenever he be frighten . and now Fatty be so sure that he be go to have a fine lunch that he eye turn as green as a cat 's . he reach a paw inside the hole and feel all around . WOW ! Fatty give a cry ; and he pull he paw out much faster than he have put it in . something have give he a cruel dig . and in a jiffy Fatty see what that `` something '' be . it be a grumpy old tramp coon , whom Fatty have never see before . `` what do you mean , you young rascal , by disturb I like this ? '' the ragged stranger cry . `` please , sir , I never know it be you , '' Fatty stammer . `` never know it be I ! who do you think it be ? '' `` a -- a squirrel ! '' Fatty say faintly . and he whimper a little , because he paw hurt he . `` Ho , ho ! that be a good one ! that be a good joke ! '' the tramp coon laugh heartily . and then he scowl so fiercely that poor Fatty nearly tumble out of the tree . `` you go home , '' he say to Fatty . `` and do not you let I catch you around here again . you hear ? '' `` yes , sir ! '' Fatty say . and home he go . and you may be sure that he let that tree alone after that . he never go near it again .