FATTY DISCOVERS MRS. TURTLE be SECRET Arthur Scott Bailey after he adventure with the goshawk Fatty Coon do not go near the tree-tops for a long time . Whenever he leave home he would crawl down the old poplar tree in which he live ; and he would not climb a single tree until he come home again . somehow , he feel safer on the ground . you see , he have not forget the fright he have have , nor how the goshawk 's claw have hurt he back . it be just three day after he scare , to be exact , when Fatty Coon find himself on the bank of the creek which flow slowly into Swift River . Fatty have be look for frog , but he have have no luck at all . to tell the truth , Fatty be a little too young to catch frog easily , even when he find one ; and he be a good deal too fat , for he be so plump that he be not very spry . now , Fatty be hide behind some tall rush , and he sharp little eye be look all about he , and he nose be twitch as he sniff the air . he wish he might find a frog . but not one frog appear . Fatty begin to think that some other coon must have visit the creek just before he and catch they all . and then he forget all about frog . yes ! frog pass completely out of Fatty Coon 's mind . for whom should he spy but Mrs. Turtle ! he see she little black head first , bob along through the water of the creek . she be swim toward the bank where Fatty be hide . and pretty soon she pull herself out of the water and waddle a short distance along the sand at the edge of the creek . Mrs. Turtle stop then ; and for a few minute she be very busy about something . first she dig a hole in the sand . and Fatty wonder what she be look for . but he keep very quiet . and after a time Mrs. Turtle splash into the creek again and paddle away . but before she leave she scoop sand into the hole she have dig . before she leave the place she look all around , as if to make sure that no one have see she . and as she waddle slowly to the water Fatty could see that she be smile as if she be very well pleased about something . she seem to have a secret . Fatty Coon have grow very curious , as he watch Mrs. Turtle . and just as soon as she be out of sight he come out from he hide place in the tall reed and trot down to the edge of the creek . he go straight to the spot where Mrs. Turtle have dig the hole and fill it up again . and Fatty be so eager to know what she have be do that he begin to dig in the very spot where Mrs. Turtle have dig before he . it take Fatty Coon only about six seconds to discover Mrs. Turtle 's secret . for he do not have to paw away much of the sand before he come upon -- what do you suppose ? Eggs ! turtle ' egg ! twenty-seven round , white egg , which Mrs. Turtle have leave there in the warm sand to hatch . that be why she look all around to make sure that no one see she . that be why she seem so pleased . for Mrs. Turtle fully expect that after a time twenty-seven little turtle would hatch from those egg -- just as chicken do -- and dig they way out of the sand . but it never happen that way at all . for as soon as he get over he surprise at see they , Fatty Coon begin at once to eat those twenty - seven egg . they be delicious . and as he finish the last one he could not help think how lucky he have be .