FATTY COON and the MONSTER Arthur Scott Bailey one night Fatty Coon be stroll along the road that wind through the valley . he be in no hurry , for he have just leave Farmer Green 's apple orchard , where he have bolt all the apple he could possibly eat . the night be dark and though it be not very late , all the country people seem to be in bed . there be no farmer drive along the road . Fatty have it all to himself . and so he walk slowly homewards . it be then that the terrible monster almost catch he . this be how it all happen . there be a br-br-br-r-r-r in the air . Fatty really should have hear it long before he do . but he have eat so many apple that he have begin to feel sleepy ; and he ear be not so sharp as they should have be . and when at last Fatty hear that br - r-r-r it be quite loud . he be startle . and he stop right in the middle of the road to listen . Fatty have never hear such a sound before . the strange animal be on he before he know it . its glaring eye blind he . and if it have not scream at he Fatty would never have escape . it be the terrible screech of the monster which finally make fatty jump . it be a frightful cry -- like six wildcat all wail together . and Fatty leap to one side of the road just before the monster reach he . the great creature go past Fatty like the wind and tear on up the hill . he seem to be run so fast that he could not stop . Fatty could hear he pant as he climb the sharp rise of the road . Fatty Coon hurry away . he want to get home before the monster could stop and come back to look for he . when Fatty tell he mother about he narrow escape Mrs. Coon become much excite . she feel sure that Fatty be not mistake , for have she not hear that strange cry herself ? there it be again ! woo-ooo-ooo-oo-o ! it begin low , rise to a shriek , and then die away again . Mrs. Coon and Fatty climb to the very top of they old poplar and gaze down the valley . `` look , Mother ! '' Fatty cry . `` he be stop at Farmer Green 's ! you can see he eye from here ! '' Mrs. Coon look . sure enough ! it be just as Fatty say . and that horrid call echo across the valley once more . Farmer Green stick he head out of he chamber-window , to see what the man in the automobile want . `` where 's the nearest village , please ? '' the stranger ask . and after Farmer Green have tell he the man drive he car on again . from they tree-top Fatty and he mother watch the monster dash down the valley . they know he have go , because they could see the gleam of those awful eye . `` do you suppose he eat up Farmer Green and he family ? '' Fatty ask in a frightened voice . `` I hope so , '' she say . `` then perhaps there 'll be no more trap in the wood . '' `` but who would plant the corn ? '' Fatty ask . Mrs. Coon do not appear to hear he question .