FATTY COON go FISHING Arthur Scott Bailey one day Fatty Coon be stroll along the brook which flow not far from he home . he stop now and then , to crouch close to the water 's edge , in the hope of catch a fish . and one time , when he lay quite still among the rock , at the side of a deep pool , with he eye search the clear water , Fatty Coon suddenly see something bright , all yellow and red , that light on the water right before he . it be a bug , or a huge fly . and Fatty be very fond of bug -- to eat , you know . so he lose no time . the bright thing have scarcely settle on the water when Fatty reach out and seize it . he put it into he mouth , when the strangest thing happen . Fatty feel himself pull right over into the water . he be surprise , for he never know a bug or a fly to be so strong as that . something prick he cheek and Fatty think that the bright thing have sting he . he try to take it out of he mouth , and he be surprise again . whatever the thing be , it seem to be stick fast in he mouth . and all the time Fatty be be drag along through the water . he begin to be frighten . and for the first time he notice that there be a slender line which stretch from he mouth straight across the pool . as he look along the line Fatty see a man at the other end of it -- a man , stand on the other side of the brook ! and he be pull Fatty toward he as fast as he could . Do you wonder that Fatty Coon be frighten ? he jump back -- as well as he could , in the water -- and try to swim away . he mouth hurt ; but he plunge and pull just the same , and jerk he head and squirm and wriggle and twist . and just as Fatty have almost give up hope of get free , the gay-colored bug , or fly , or whatever it be , fly out of he mouth and take the line with it . at least , that be what Fatty Coon think . and he swim quickly to the bank and scamper into the bush . now , this be what really happen . Farmer Green have come up the brook to catch trout . on the end of he fish-line he have tie a make-believe fly , with a hook hide under its red and yellow wing . he have steal along the brook very quietly , so that he would not frighten the fish . and he have make so little noise that Fatty Coon never hear he at all . Farmer Green have not see Fatty , crouch as he be among the stone . and when Fatty reach out and grab the make-believe fly Farmer Green be even more surprised at what happen than Fatty himself . if the fish-hook have not work loose from Fatty 's mouth Farmer Green would have catch the queerest fish anybody ever catch , almost . something seem to amuse Farmer Green , as he watch Fatty dive into the bush ; and he laugh loud and long . but Fatty Coon do not laugh at all . he mouth be too sore ; and he be too frightened . but he be very , very glad that the strange bug have fly away .