FATTY COON AT HOME Arthur Scott Bailey Fatty Coon be so fat and round that he look like a ball of fur , with a plumelike tail for a handle . but if you look at he closely you would have see a pair of very bright eye watch you . Fatty love to eat . Yes -- he love eat better than anything else in the world . that be what make he so fat . and that , too , be what lead he into many adventure . close by a swamp , which lay down in the valley , between Blue Mountain and Swift River , Fatty Coon live with he mother and he brother and he two sister . among they all there be what grow people call `` a strong family resemblance , '' which be the same thing as say that they all look very much alike . the tail of each one of they -- mother and child too -- have six black ring around it . each of they have a dark brown patch of fur across the face , like a mask . and -- what do you think ? -- each of they , even Fatty and he brother and he sister , have a stiff , white moustache ! of course , though they all look so much alike , you would have know which be Mrs. Coon , for she be so much bigger than she child . and you would have know which be Fatty -- he be so much rounder than he brother and he sister . Mrs. Coon 's home be in the hollow branch of a old tree . it be a giant of a tree -- a poplar close by a brook which run into the swamp -- and the branch which be Mrs. Coon 's home be as big as most tree-trunks be . Blackie be Fatty 's brother -- for the mask on he face be just a little darker than the other ' . Fluffy be one of Fatty 's sister , because she fur be just a little fluffier than the other child 's . and Cutey be the other sister 's name , because she be so quaint . now , Fatty Coon be forever look around for something to eat . he be never satisfy with what he mother bring home for he . no matter how big a dinner Mrs. Coon set before she family , as soon as he have finish eat he share Fatty would wipe he white moustache carefully -- for all the world like some old gentleman -- and hurry off in search of something more . sometimes he go to the edge of the brook and try to catch fish by hook they out of the water with he sharp claw . sometimes he go over to the swamp and hunt for duck among the tall reed . and though he do not yet know how to catch a duck , he could always capture a frog or two ; and Fatty eat they as if he have not have a mouthful of food for day . to tell the truth , Fatty would eat almost anything he could get -- nut , cherry , wild grape , blackberry , bug , small snake , fish , chicken , honey -- there be no end to the different kind of food he like . he eat everything . and he always want more . `` be this all there be ? '' Fatty Coon ask he mother one day . he have gobble up every bit of the nice fish that Mrs. Coon have bring home for he . it be go in no time at all . Mrs. Coon sigh . she have hear that question so many time ; and she wish that for once Fatty might have all the dinner he want . `` yes -- that be all , '' she say , `` and I should think that it be enough for a young coon like you . '' Fatty say nothing more . he wipe he moustache on the back of he hand -lrb-B- I hope you 'll never do that ! -rrb-B- and without another word he start off to see what he could find to eat .