FATTY find the MOON Arthur Scott Bailey wander through the wood one day , Fatty Coon 's bright eye catch a strange gleam from something -- something that shone and glitter out of the green . Fatty want to see what it be , though he hardly think it be anything to eat . but whenever he come upon something new he always want to examine it . so now Fatty hurry to see what the strange thing be . it be the oddest thing he have ever find -- flat , round , and silvery ; and it hang in the air , under a tree , just over Fatty 's head . Fatty Coon look carefully at the bright thing . he walk all around it , so he could see it from all side . and at last he think he know what it be . he make up he mind that it be the moon ! he have often see the moon up in the sky ; and here it be , just the same size exactly , hang so low that he could have reach it with he paw . he see nothing strange in that ; for he know that the moon often touch the earth . have he not see it many a time , rest on the side of Blue Mountain ? one night he have ask he mother if he might go up on the mountain to play with the moon ; but she have only laugh . and here , at last , be the moon come to he ! Fatty be so excited that he run home as fast as he could go , to tell he mother , and he brother Blackie , and Fluffy and Cutey , he sister . `` oh ! the moon ! the moon ! '' Fatty shout . he have run so fast that , be so plump , he be quite out of breath . and that be all he could say . `` well , well ! what about the moon ! '' Mrs. Coon ask . `` anybody would think you have find it , almost . '' and she smile . Fatty puff and gasp . and at last he catch he breath again . `` yes -- I have find it ! it be over in the wood -- just a little way from here ! '' he say . `` Big , and round , and shiny ! Let 's all go and bring it home ! '' `` well , well , well ! '' Mrs. Coon be puzzle . she have never hear of the moon be find in those wood ; and she hardly know what to think . `` be you sure ? '' she ask . `` oh , yes , Mother ! '' Fatty could hardly wait , he be so eager to lead the way . and with many a shake of the head , Mrs. Coon , with she family , start off to see the moon . `` there ! '' Fatty cry , as they come in sight of the bright , round thing . `` there it be -- just as I tell you ! '' and they all set up a great shouting . all but Mrs. Coon . she be not quite sure , even yet , that Fatty have really find the moon . and she walk close to the shine thing and peer at it . but not too close ! Mrs. Coon do not go too near it . and she tell she child quite sternly to stand back . it be well that she do ; for when Mrs. Coon take she eye off Fatty 's moon and look at the ground beneath it -- well ! she jump back so quickly that she knock two of she child flat on the ground . a trap ! that be what Mrs. Coon see right in front of she . and Farmer Green , or he boy , or whoever it be that set the trap , have hang that bright piece of TIN over the trap hope that one of she family would see it and play with it -- and fall into the trap . Yes -- it be a mercy that Fatty have not begin knock it about . for if he have he would have step right into the trap and it would have shut -- SNAP ! just like that . and there he would have be , catch fast . it be no wonder that Mrs. Coon hurry she family away from that spot . and Fatty lead they all home again . he could not get away from he moon fast enough .