126 Ferdinand the Faithful BrothersS Grimm once on a time live a man and a woman who so long as they be rich have no child , but when they be poor they have a little boy . they could , however , find no godfather for he , so the man say he would just go to another place to see if he could get one there . as he go , a poor man meet he , who ask he where he be go . he say he be go to see if he could get a godfather , that he be poor , so no one would stand as godfather for he . `` oh , '' say the poor man , `` you be poor , and I be poor ; I will be godfather for you , but I be so ill off I can give the child nothing . go home and tell the nurse that she be to come to the church with the child . '' when they all get to the church together , the beggar be already there , and he give the child the name of Ferdinand the Faithful . when he be go out of the church , the beggar say , `` now go home , I can give you nothing , and you likewise ought to give I nothing . '' but he give a key to the nurse , and tell she when she get home she be to give it to the father , who be to take care of it until the child be fourteen year old , and then he be to go on the heath where there be a castle which the key would fit , and that all which be therein should belong to he . now when the child be seven year old and have grow very big , he once go to play with some other boy , and each of they boast that he have get more from he godfather than the other ; but the child could say nothing , and be vex , and go home and say to he father , `` do I get nothing at all , then , from my godfather ? '' `` oh , yes , '' say the father , `` thou hadst a key if there be a castle standing on the heath , just go to it and open it . '' then the boy go thither , but no castle be to be see , or hear of . after seven year more , when he be fourteen year old , he again go thither , and there stand the castle . when he have open it , there be nothing within but a horse , a white one . then the boy be so full of joy because he have a horse , that he mount on it and gallop back to he father . `` now I have a white horse , and I will travel , '' say he . so he set out , and as he be on he way , a pen be lie on the road . at first he think he would pick it up , but then again he think to himself , `` Thou shouldst leave it lie there ; thou wilt easily find a pen where thou art go , if thou hast need of one . '' as he be thus ride away , a voice call after he , `` Ferdinand the Faithful , take it with thee . '' he look around , but see no one , then he go back again and pick it up . when he have ride a little way farther , he pass by a lake , and a fish be lie on the bank , gasp and pant for breath , so he say , `` wait , my dear fish , I will help thee get into the water , '' and he take hold of it by the tail , and throw it into the lake . then the fish put its head out of the water and say , `` as thou hast help I out of the mud I will give thee a flute ; when thou art in any need , play on it , and then I will help thee , and if ever thou lettest anything fall in the water , just play and I will reach it out to thee . '' then he ride away , and there come to he a man who ask he where he be go . `` oh , to the next place . '' then what he name be ? `` Ferdinand the Faithful . '' `` so ! then we have get almost the same name , I be call Ferdinand the Unfaithful . '' and they both set out to the inn in the nearest place . now it be unfortunate that Ferdinand the Unfaithful know everything that the other have ever think and everything he be about to do ; he know it by means of all kind of wicked art . there be , however , in the inn a honest girl , who have a bright face and behave very prettily . she fall in love with Ferdinand the Faithful because he be a handsome man , and she ask he whither he be go . `` oh , I be just travel round about , '' say he . then she say he ought to stay there , for the King of that country want a attendant or a outrider , and he ought to enter he service . he answer he could not very well go to any one like that and offer himself . then say the maiden , `` oh , but I will soon do that for you . '' and so she go straight to the King , and tell he that she know of a excellent servant for he . he be well please with that , and have Ferdinand the Faithful bring to he , and want to make he he servant . he , however , like better to be a outrider , for where he horse be , there he also want to be , so the King make he a outrider . when Ferdinand the Unfaithful learn that , he say to the girl , `` what ! Dost thou help he and not I ? '' `` oh , '' say the girl , `` I will help thee too . '' she think , `` I must keep friend with that man , for he be not to be trust . '' she go to the King , and offer he as a servant , and the King be willing . now when the King meet he lord in the morning , he always lament and say , `` oh , if I have but my love with I . '' Ferdinand the Unfaithful be , however , always hostile to Ferdinand the Faithful . so once , when the King be complain thus , he say , `` you have the outrider , send he away to get she , and if he do not do it , he head must be strike off . '' then the King send for Ferdinand the Faithful , and tell he that there be , in this place or in that place , a girl he love , and that he be to bring she to he , and if he do not do it he should die . Ferdinand the Faithful go into the stable to he white horse , and complain and lament , `` oh , what a unhappy man I be ! '' then someone behind he cry , `` Ferdinand the Faithful , why weepest thou ? '' he look round but see no one , and go on lamenting ; `` oh , my dear little white horse , now must I leave thee ; now must I die . '' then some one cry once more , `` Ferdinand the Faithful , why weepest thou ? '' then for the first time he be aware that it be he little white horse who be put that question . `` dost thou speak , my little white horse ; canst thou do that ? '' and again , he say , `` I be to go to this place and to that , and be to bring the bride ; canst thou tell I how I be to set about it ? '' then answer the little white horse , `` go thou to the King , and say if he will give thou what thou must have , thou wilt get she for he . if he will give thee a ship full of meat , and a ship full of bread , it will succeed . great giant dwell on the lake , and if thou takest no meat with thee for they , they will tear thee to piece , and there be the large bird which would pick the eye out of thy head if thou hadst no bread for they . '' then the King make all the butcher in the land kill , and all the baker bake , that the ship might be fill . when they be full , the little white horse say to Ferdinand the Faithful , `` now mount I , and go with I into the ship , and then when the giant come , say , `` Peace , peace , my dear little giant , I have have think of ye , something I have bring for ye ; '' and when the bird come , thou shalt again say , `` Peace , peace , my dear little bird , I have have think of ye , something I have bring for ye ; '' then they will do nothing to thee , and when thou comest to the castle , the giant will help thee . then go up to the castle , and take a couple of giant with thee . there the princess lie sleep ; thou must , however , not awaken she , but the giant must lift she up , and carry she in she bed to the ship . '' and now everything take place as the little white horse have say , and Ferdinand the Faithful give the giant and the bird what he have bring with he for they , and that make the giant willing , and they carry the princess in she bed to the King . and when she come to the King , she say she could not live , she must have she writings , they have be leave in she castle . then by the instigation of Ferdinand the Unfaithful , Ferdinand the Faithful be call , and the King tell he he must fetch the writings from the castle , or he should die . then he go once more into the stable , and bemoan himself and say , `` oh , my dear little white horse , now I be to go away again , how be I to do it ? '' then the little white horse say he be just to load the ship full again . so it happen again as it have happen before , and the giant and the bird be satisfy , and make gentle by the meat . when they come to the castle , the white horse tell Ferdinand the Faithful that he must go in , and that on the table in the princess 's bed-room lay the writings . and Ferdinand the Faithful go in , and fetch they . when they be on the lake , he let he pen fall into the water ; then say the white horse , `` now I can not help thee at all . '' but he remember he flute , and begin to play on it , and the fish come with the pen in its mouth , and give it to he . so he take the writings to the castle , where the wedding be celebrate . the Queen , however , do not love the King because he have no nose , but she would have much like to love Ferdinand the Faithful . once , therefore , when all the lord of the court be together , the Queen say she could do feat of magic , that she could cut off any one 's head and put it on again , and that one of they ought just to try it . but none of they would be the first , so Ferdinand the Faithful , again at the instigation of Ferdinand the Unfaithful , undertake it and she hew off he head , and put it on again for he , and it heal together directly , so that it look as if he have a red thread round he throat . then the King say to she , `` my child , and where hast thou learn that ? '' `` yes , '' she say , `` I understand the art ; shall I just try it on thee also ? '' `` oh , yes , '' say he . but she cut off he head , and do not put it on again ; but pretend that she could not get it on , and that it would not keep fix . then the King be bury , but she marry Ferdinand the Faithful . he , however , always ride on he white horse , and once when he be seat on it , it tell he that he be to go on to the heath which he know , and gallop three time round it . and when he have do that , the white horse stand up on its hind leg , and be change into a King 's son .