FERONDE La Fontain by La Fontaine in Eastern clime , by means consider new ; the Mount 's old-man , with terror would pursue ; he large domain howe'er be not the cause , nor heap of gold , that give he such applause , but manners strange he subject to persuade ; in ev ` ry wish , to serve he they be make . among he people boldest heart he choose , and to they view would Paradise disclose its blissful pleasure : -- ev ` ry soft delight , design to gratify the sense and sight . so plausible this prophet 's tale appear , each word he dropt be thoroughly revere . whence this delusion ? -- DRINK derange the mind ; and , reason drown , to madness they resign . thus void of know clearly what they do , they soon be bring to act as they be bid ; Conveyed to place , charming to the eye , enchant garden ` neath a azure sky , with twine shrub , meandring walk , and flow ` r , and num ` rous grotto , portico and bow ` r . when they chance to pass where all be gay , from wine 's inebriating pow ` rful sway , they wonder at the frolicking around , and fancy they be get on fairy ground , which Mahomet pretend be assign , for those to he doctrine be incline . to tempt the man and girl to seek the scene , and skip and play and dance upon the green , to murm ` ring stream , meander along , and lute ' soft note and nightingale ' sweet song : no earthly pleasure but might there be view , the best of wine and choicest fruit accrue , to render sense bewilder at the sight , and sink inebriate with delight . then back they bear they motionless to sleep , and wake with wish further joy to reap . from these enjoyment many fully think , to such enchant scene they should be bring , in future time , eternal bliss to taste , if death and danger valiantly they face , and try the prophet Mahomet to please , and ev ` ry point to serve they prince would seize . the Mount 's old man , by means like these , could say ; he have man devote to support he sway ; upon the globe no empire more be fear , or king or potentate like he revere . these circumstance I have minutely tell , to show , we tale be know in day of old . FERONDE , a rich , but awkward , vulgar clown , a ninny be believe throughout the town ; he have the charge of revenue not slight , which he collect for a friar white . of these I have know as good as any black , when husband some assistance seem to lack , and have so much to do , they monk might need ; or other friend , they work at home to speed . this friar for to-morrow never think , but squander ev ` ry thing as soon as bring ; no saint-apostle less of wealth retain ; good cheer o ` er ev ` ry wish triumphant reign , Save now and then to have a little fun , -lrb-B- unknown to other -rrb-B- with a pretty nun . FERONDE have get a spouse of please sight , relate nearly to we friar white , whose predecessor , uncle , sponsor kind , now go to realm of night , have she consign , to be this silly blockhead 's lawful wife , who think she hand the honor of he life . ` Tis say that bastard-daughters oft retain a disposition to the parent-train ; and this , the say , truly ne'er belly , nor be she spouse so weak but he descry , thing clearer than be requisite believe , and doubt much if he be not deceive . the wife would often to the prelate go , pretend business , proper he should know ; a thousand circumstance she could find ; 'Twas then account : now sev ` ral thing combine ; in short no day nor hour within the week , but something at the friar 's she would seek . the holy father then be always prone , to send the servant off and be alone . howe'er the husband , doubt trick be play ; get troublesome ; he wife would much upbraid when she return , and often beat she too ; in short , -- he unaccommodate grow . the rural mind by nature jealous prove ; Suspicion show of ev ` ry thing that move ; unused to city way , perverse appear , and , undismayed , to principle adhere : the friar find he situation hard ; he love he ease ? -- all trouble would discard ; as priest in gen ` ral anxiously desire ; they plan howe'er I never can admire , and should not choose at once to take the town , but by the escalade obtain the crown ; in love I mean ; to war I do not allude : no silly brag I would here intrude , nor be enrol among the martial train : ` Tis Venus ' court that I should like to gain . Let t ` other custom be the better way : it matter not ; no longer I 'll delay , but to my tale return , and fully state , how we receiver , who misuse he mate ; be put in purgatory to be cure , and , for a time , most thoroughly immured . by means of opiate powder , much renown , the friar plunge he in a sleep profound . Thought dead ; the fun ` ral obsequy achieve , he be surprise , and doubtless sorely grieved , when he awake and see where he be place , with folk around , not much to suit he taste ; for in the coffin he at large be leave , and of the pow ` r to move be not bereft , but might arise and walk about the tomb , which open to another vaulted room , the gloomy , hollow mansion of the dead : fear quickly o ` er he droop spirit spread . what be here ? cry he : be ` t sleep , or be it death ; some charm or spell perhaps withdraw they breath . we wight then ask they name and business there ; and why he be retain in such a snare ? in what have he offend God or man ? -- say one , console thyself : -- past moment scan ; when thou hast rest here a thousand year , Thou ` lt then ascend amid the Heav ` nly sphere ; but first in holy purgatory learn , to cleanse thyself from sin that we discern ; one day thy soul shall leave this loathsome place , and , pure as ice , repair to realm of grace . then this consoling Angel give a thwack , and ten or dozen stripe lay on he back : -- ` Tis thy unruly , jealous mind , say he , displease God , and doom thee here to be . a MOURNFUL sigh the lorn receiver heave , he ache shoulder rub , and sob and grieve ; a thousand year , cry he , ` tis long indeed ! my very soul with horror seem to bleed . WE should observe , this Angel be a wag , a novice-friar and a convent fag ; like he the other round have part to act , and be disguise in dress quite exact . we penitent most humbly pardon seek ; Said he , if e ` er to life again I be bring , no jealousy , suspicion 's hateful bane , Shall ever enter my distract brain . May I not have this grace , this wish for boon ? some hope they give , but it could not be soon ; in short a year he lay upon the floor : just food for life receive , and nothing more , each day on bread and water he be feed , and o ` er he back the cat-o ` nine-tails spread : Full twenty lash be the number set , unless the friar should from Heav ` n first get permission to remit at time a part , for charity be glowing in he heart . WE , must not doubt , he often offer prayer , to ease the culprit 's suffering and care . the Angel likewise make a long discourse ; Said he , those vile suspicion be the source , of all thy sorrow , wretchedness , and pain : think ` st thou such thought the clergy entertain ? a friar white ! -- too bad in ev ` ry sense : ten stroke to one , if black , for such offence . Repent , I say : -- the other this desire , though scarcely he could tell what be require . meanwhile the prelate with the fav ` rite dame , no time to lose , make ev ` ry hour the same . the husband , with a sigh , be hear to say : I wonder what my wife 's about to-day ? about ? -- whate'er it be ` tis doubtless right ; we friar , to console she , take delight ; Thy business too be manage as before , and anxious care bestow upon thy store . have she as usual matter that demand Attendance at the cloister to be scan ? -- no doubt be the reply , for have now the whole affair upon she feeble brow , Poor woman ! be she wish what they will , she more assistance want thy loss to fill . discourse like this no pleasure give the soul : to call he so seem best upon the whole , since he would not pow ` r like other here to feed : -- mere earthly shadow for a time decree . a month be pass in fasting , pain , and prayer ; some charity the friar make he share , and now and then remission would direct ; the widow too he never would neglect , but , all the consolation in he pow ` r , bestow upon she ev ` ry leisure hour , he tender care unfruitful be not long ; beyond he hope the soil prove good and strong ; in short we Pater Abbas justly fear , to make he father many sign appear . since ` twere improper such a fact be know ; when proof perhaps too clearly might be show , so many prayer be say and vigil keep , at length the soul from purgatory creep , so much reduce , and ev ` ry way so thin but little more he seem than bone and skin . a thing so strange fill number with surprise , who scarcely would believe they ear and eye . the friar pass for saint : -- Feronde he fruit ; none durst presume to doubt nor to dispute ; a double miracle at once appear the dead 's return : the lady 's state revere . with treble force Te Deum round be sing ; sterility in marriage oft be ring , and near the convent many offer prayer , in hope they fervent vow would gain they heir . the humble spouse and wife we now shall leave let none , howe'er , suppose that we conceive , each husband merit , as we soul , the same , to cure the jealous fear he breast inflame .