FIFTH evening . H. C. Andersen `` yesterday , '' begin the Moon , `` I look down upon the turmoil of Paris . my eye penetrate into a apartment of the Louvre . a old grandmother , poorly clothe -- she belong to the work class -- be follow one of the under-servants into the great empty throne-room , for this be the apartment she want to see -- that she be resolve to see ; it have cost she many a little sacrifice , and many a coaxing word , to penetrate thus far . she fold she thin hand , and look round with a air of reverence , as if she have be in a church . '' ` here it be ! ' she say , ` here ! ' and she approach the throne , from which hang the rich velvet fringe with gold lace . ` there , ' she exclaim , ` there ! ' and she knelt and kiss the purple carpet . I think she be actually weep . '' ` but it be not _ this very _ velvet ! ' observe the footman , and a smile play about he mouth . ` true , but it be this very place , ' reply the woman , ` and it must have look just like this . ' ` it look so , and yet it do not , ' observe the man : ` the window be beat in , and the door be off they hinge , and there be blood upon the floor . ' ` but for all that you can say , my grandson die upon the throne of France . die ! ' mournfully repeat the old woman . I do not think another word be speak , and they soon quit the hall . the evening twilight fade , and my light shone doubly vivid upon the rich velvet that cover the throne of France . `` now , who do you think this poor woman be ? listen , I will tell you a story . `` it happen , in the revolution of July , on the evening of the most brilliantly victorious day , when every house be a fortress , every window a breastwork . the people storm the TuileriesS . even woman and child be to be find among the combatant . they penetrate into the apartment and hall of the palace . a poor half-grown boy in a ragged blouse fight among the older insurgent . mortally wound with several bayonet thrust , he sink down . this happen in the throne-room . they lay the bleeding youth upon the throne of France , wrap the velvet around he wound , and he blood stream forth upon the imperial purple . there be a picture ! the splendid hall , the fighting group ! a torn flag lay upon the ground , the tricolor be wave above the bayonet , and on the throne lay the poor lad with the pale glorify countenance , he eye turn towards the sky , he limb writhe in the death agony , he breast bare , and he poor tattered clothing half hide by the rich velvet embroider with silver lily . at the boy 's cradle a prophecy have be speak : ` he will die on the throne of France ! ' the mother 's heart dream of a second Napoleon . `` my beam have kiss the wreath of _ immortelle _ on he grave , and this night they kiss the forehead of the old grandame , while in a dream the picture float before she which thou mayest draw -- the poor boy on the throne of France . ''