46 Fitcher 's Bird BrothersS Grimm there be once a wizard who use to take the form of a poor man , and go to house and beg , and catch pretty girl . no one know whither he carry they , for they be never see more . one day he appear before the door of a man who have three pretty daughter ; he look like a poor weak beggar , and carry a basket on he back , as if he mean to collect charitable gift in it . he beg for a little food , and when the eldest daughter come out and be just reach he a piece of bread , he do but touch she , and she be force to jump into he basket . Thereupon he hurry away with long stride , and carry she away into a dark forest to he house , which stand in the midst of it . everything in the house be magnificent ; he give she whatsoever she could possibly desire , and say , `` my darling , thou wilt certainly be happy with I , for thou hast everything thy heart can wish for . '' this last a few day , and then he say , `` I must journey forth , and leave thee alone for a short time ; there be the key of the house ; thou mayst go everywhere and look at everything except into one room , which this little key here open , and there I forbid thee to go on pain of death . '' he likewise give she a egg and say , `` preserve the egg carefully for I , and carry it continually about with thee , for a great misfortune would arise from the loss of it . '' she take the key and the egg , and promise to obey he in everything . when he be go , she go all round the house from the bottom to the top , and examine everything . the room shine with silver and gold , and she think she have never see such great splendor . at length she come to the forbid door ; she wish to pass it by , but curiosity let she have no rest . she examine the key , it look just like any other ; she put it in the keyhole and turn it a little , and the door spring open . but what do she see when she go in ? a great bloody basin stand in the middle of the room , and therein lay human being , dead and hew to piece , and hard by be a block of wood , and a gleaming axe lay upon it . she be so terribly alarmed that the egg which she hold in she hand fall into the basin . she get it out and wash the blood off , but in vain , it appear again in a moment . she wash and scrub , but she could not get it out . it be not long before the man come back from he journey , and the first thing which he ask for be the key and the egg . she give they to he , but she tremble as she do so , and he see at once by the red spot that she have be in the bloody chamber . `` since thou hast go into the room against my will , '' say he , `` thou shalt go back into it against thine own . thy life be end . '' he throw she down , drag she thither by she hair , cut she head off on the block , and hew she in piece so that she blood run on the ground . then he throw she into the basin with the rest . `` now I will fetch myself the second , '' say the wizard , and again he go to the house in the shape of a poor man , and beg . then the second daughter bring he a piece of bread ; he catch she like the first , by simply touch she , and carry she away . she do not fare better than she sister . she allow herself to be lead away by she curiosity , open the door of the bloody chamber , look in , and have to atone for it with she life on the wizard 's return . then he go and bring the third sister , but she be clever and crafty . when he have give she the key and the egg , and have leave she , she first put the egg away with great care , and then she examine the house , and at last go into the forbid room . Alas , what do she behold ! both she sister lay there in the basin , cruelly murder , and cut in piece . but she begin to gather they limb together and put they in order , head , body , arm and leg . and when nothing further be want the limb begin to move and unite themselves together , and both the maiden open they eye and be once more alive . then they rejoice and kiss and caress each other . on he arrival , the man at once demand the key and the egg , and as he could perceive no trace of any blood on it , he say , `` Thou hast stand the test , thou shalt be my bride . '' he now have no longer any power over she , and be force to do whatsoever she desire . `` oh , very well , '' say she , `` thou shalt first take a basketful of gold to my father and mother , and carry it thyself on thy back ; in the meantime I will prepare for the wedding . '' then she run to she sister , whom she have hide in a little chamber , and say , `` the moment have come when I can save you . the wretch shall himself carry you home again , but as soon as you be at home send help to I . '' she put both of they in a basket and cover they quite over with gold , so that nothing of they be to be see , then she call in the wizard and say to he , `` now carry the basket away , but I shall look through my little window and watch to see if thou stoppest on the way to stand or to rest . '' the wizard raise the basket on he back and go away with it , but it weigh he down so heavily that the perspiration stream from he face . then he sit down and want to rest awhile , but immediately one of the girl in the basket cry , `` I be look through my little window , and I see that thou art resting . Wilt thou go on at once ? '' he think it be he bride who be call that to he ; and get up on he leg again . once more he be go to sit down , but instantly she cry , `` I be look through my little window , and I see that thou art resting . Wilt thou go on directly ? '' and whenever he stand still , she cry this , and then he be force to go onward , until at last , groan and out of breath , he take the basket with the gold and the two maiden into they parent ' house . at home , however , the bride prepare the marriage-feast , and send invitation to the friend of the wizard . then she take a skull with grinning tooth , put some ornament on it and a wreath of flower , carry it upstairs to the garret-window , and let it look out from thence . when all be ready , she get into a barrel of honey , and then cut the feather-bed open and roll herself in it , until she look like a wondrous bird , and no one could recognize she . then she go out of the house , and on she way she meet some of the wedding-guests , who ask , `` O , Fitcher 's bird , how com ` st thou here ? '' `` I come from Fitcher 's house quite near . '' `` and what may the young bride be do ? '' `` from cellar to garret she be sweep all clean , and now from the window she be peep , I ween . '' at last she meet the bridegroom , who be come slowly back . he , like the other , ask , `` O , Fitcher 's bird , how com ` st thou here ? '' `` I come from Fitcher 's house quite near . '' `` and what may the young bride be do ? `` from cellar to garret she be sweep all clean , and now from the window she be peep , I ween . '' the bridegroom look up , see the decked-out skull , think it be he bride , and nod to she , greet she kindly . but when he and he guest have all go into the house , the brother and kinsman of the bride , who have be send to rescue she , arrive . they lock all the door of the house , that no one might escape , set fire to it , and the wizard and all he crew have to burn .