FORTY FAT TURKEYS Arthur Scott Bailey when Jasper Jay tell Fatty Coon about Farmer Green 's forty fat turkey Fatty feel hungrier than ever . `` oh ! I must not go near Farmer Green 's house ! '' he say . `` my mother tell I to keep away from there ... what time do you say the turkey go to roost ? '' `` oh ! they go to roost every night at sundown , '' Jasper Jay explain . `` and there they sit , up in the tree , all night long . they be fast asleep . and you would have no trouble at all in catch as many as you want ... but of course , if you be afraid -- why there be no use of MY talk about it . there be a plenty of other coon in these wood who would be glad to know about those turkey . and maybe they would have the manners to say ` thank you ! ' too . '' and with a hoarse , sneer laugh Jasper Jay fly away . that be enough for Fatty . he make up he mind that he would show Jasper Jay that he be not afraid . and he want a turkey to eat , too . he say nothing to he mother about Jasper 's news . but that very night , when the moon come up , and the light in Farmer Green 's house be all out , Fatty Coon go steal across the field . he be not afraid , for he know that Farmer Green and all he family be in they bed . and it be so cold that Fatty feel sure that Farmer Green 's dog would be inside they kennel . Fatty do not intend to make any noise . the turkey be asleep -- so Jasper Jay have tell he -- and he expect to grab one of they so swiftly and silently that the other turkey would never know it . when Fatty Coon come to Farmer Green 's yard he have no trouble at all in find the spread oak . he could see the turkey plainly where they doze on the bare branch . and in less time than it take to tell it Fatty have climb the tree . on the very lowest limb there be a row of four plump turkey , all sound asleep . and Fatty reach out and seize the nearest one . he seize the turkey by the neck , so that the big bird could not call out . but Fatty be not quite quick enough . before he could pull she off she perch the turkey begin to flap she wing , and she strike the turkey next she , so that that turkey wake up and begin to gobble and flap her wing . then the next turkey on the limb wake up . and the first thing that Fatty Coon know , every one of the thirty-nine turkey that be leave be go gobble-gob-gob-gob-gobble ! and some of they go sail off across the yard . one of they light on top of the porch just outside Farmer Green 's window and it seem to Fatty that that one make the greatest racket of all . Farmer Green 's window fly up ; and Farmer Green 's voice call `` spot ! spot ! '' Fatty Coon do not wait to hear anything more . he drop the turkey he have seize and slip down to the ground . and then he run toward the wood as fast as he could go . Farmer Green 's dog spot be bark now . and Fatty want to climb one of the tree by the roadside . but he remember , the narrow escape he have have when the dog have treed he near the cornfield . so he never stop until he reach the wood . then he go nimbly up into the tree . and while Spot be bark at the foot of the first tree he climb , Fatty be travel through the tree-tops toward home . he never say anything to he mother about Farmer Green 's turkey . but the next time he see Jasper Jay Fatty tell he exactly what he think of he . `` ha ! ha ! '' Jasper Jay only laugh . and he do not seem at all surprise that Fatty have fall into trouble . to tell the truth , he be only sorry because Fatty have escape . Jasper Jay do not like Fatty Coon . and he have tell he about the forty fat turkey because he hope that Fatty would get catch if he try to steal one of they . `` wait till I catch you ! '' Fatty say . but Jasper Jay only laugh harder than ever when Fatty say that . he seem to think it be a great joke . he be most annoying .