FOURTEENTH evening . H. C. Andersen `` I be glide over the Lueneburg Heath , '' the Moon say . `` a lonely hut stand by the wayside , a few scanty bush grow near it , and a nightingale who have lose he way sing sweetly . he die in the coldness of the night : it be he farewell song that I hear . `` the morning dawn come glimmer red . I see a caravan of emigrant peasant family who be bind to Hamburgh , there to take ship for America , where fancied prosperity would bloom for they . the mother carry they little child at they back , the elder one totter by they side , and a poor starve horse tug at a cart that bear they scanty effect . the cold wind whistle , and therefore the little girl nestle closer to the mother , who , look up at my decrease disc , thought of the bitter want at home , and speak of the heavy tax they have not be able to raise . the whole caravan thought of the same thing ; therefore , the rise dawn seem to they a message from the sun , of fortune that be to gleam brightly upon they . they hear the die nightingale sing : it be no false prophet , but a harbinger of fortune . the wind whistle , therefore they do not understand that the nightingale sing , ` fare away over the sea ! Thou hast pay the long passage with all that be thine , and poor and helpless shalt thou enter Canaan . Thou must sell thyself , thy wife , and thy child . but you grief shall not last long . behind the broad fragrant leave lurk the goddess of Death , and she welcome kiss shall breathe fever into thy blood . fare away , fare away , over the heaving billow . ' and the caravan listen well please to the song of the nightingale , which seem to promise good fortune . Day break through the light cloud ; country people go across the heath to church : the black-gowned woman with they white head-dresses look like ghost that have step forth from the church picture . all around lay a wide dead plain , cover with fade brown heath , and black char space between the white sand hill . the woman carry hymn book , and walk into the church . oh , pray , pray for those who be wander to find grave beyond the foam billow . ''