FRIAR PHILIP be GEESE La Fontain if these gay tale give pleasure to the FAIR , the honour 's great confer , I be well aware ; yet , why suppose the sex my page shun ? Enough , if they condemn where folly run ; Laugh in they sleeve at trick they disapprove , and , false or true , a muscle never move . a playful jest can scarcely give offence : who know too much , oft show a want of sense . from flatt ` ry oft more dire effect arise , enflame the heart and take it by surprise ; Ye beauteous belle , beware each sigh swain , discard he vow : -- my book with care retain ; you safety then I 'll guarantee at ease . -- but why dismiss ? -- they wish be to please : and , truly , no necessity appear for solitude : -- consider well you year . I have , and feel convinced they do you wrong , who think no virtue can to such belong ; White crow and phoenix do not abound ; but lucky lover still be sometimes find ; and though , as these famed bird , not quite so rare , the number be not great that favor share ; I own my work a diff ` rent sense express , but these be tale : -- mere tale in easy dress . to beauty 's wiles , in ev ` ry class , I have bow ; Fawned , flatter , sigh , e ` en constancy have vow what gain ? you ask -- but little I admit ; Howe'er we aim , too oft we fail to hit . my latter day I 'll now devote with care , to guard the sex from ev ` ry latent snare . tale I 'll detail , and these relate at ease : narration clear and neat will always please ; like I , to this attention critick pay ; then sleep , on either side , from night till day . if awkward , vulgar phrase intervene , or rhyme imperfect o ` er the page be see , condemn at will ; but stratagem and art , Pass , shut you eye , who would heed the idle part ? some mother , husband , may perhaps be lead , to pull my lock for story white or red ; so matter stand : a fine affair , no doubt , and what I have fail to do -- my book make out . the FAIR my page safely may pursue , and this apology they 'll not refuse . what recompense can I presume to make ? a tale I 'll give , where female charm partake , and prove resistless whatsoe'er assail : bless BEAUTY , NATURE ever should prevail . HAD Fate decree we YOUTH , at early morn , to view the angel feature you adorn , the captivate pow ` r AURORA bless , or airy spring bedeck in beauteous dress , and all the azure canopy on high have vanish like a dream , once you be nigh . and when he eye at length you charm beheld , he glowing breast with softest passion swell ; Superior lustre beam at ev ` ry view ; no pleasure please : he soul be fix on you . crown , jewel , palace , appear as naught . 'twa solely beauteous woman now he seek . a WOOD , from earliest year , he home have be , and bird the only company he would see , whose note harmonious often lull he care , beguile he hour , and save he from despair ; Delightful sound ! from nightingale and dive unknown they tongue , yet indicant of love . THIS savage , solitary , rustick school , the father choose he infancy to rule . the mother 's recent death induce the sire , to place the son where only beast retire ; and long the forest habitant alone be all he youthful sight have ever know . two reason , good or bad , the father lead to fly the world : -- all intercourse to dread since fate have tear he lovely spouse from hence ; Misanthropy and fear o ` ercame each sense ; of the world grow tired , he hate all around : -- Too oft in solitude be sorrow find . he partner 's death produce distaste of life , and make he fear to seek another wife . a hermit 's gloomy , mossy cell he take , and wish he child might thither solely look . among the poor he little wealth he throw , and with he infant son alone withdraw ; the forest 's dreary wild conceal he cell ; there Philip -lrb-B- such he name -rrb-B- resolve to dwell . by holy motive lead , and not chagrin , the hermit never speak of what he would see ; but , from the youth 's discernment , strive to hide , Whate'er regard love , and much beside , the softer sex , with all they magick charm , that fill the feeling bosom with alarm . as year advance , the boy with care he teach ; what suit best he age before he bring ; at five he show he animal and flow ` r , the bird of air , the beast , they sev ` ral pow ` r ; and now and then of hell he give a hint , Old Satan 's wrath , and what might awe imprint , how form , and doom to infamy below ; in childhood fear 's the lesson first we know ! the year have pass away , when Philip try , in matter more profound he son to guide ; he speak of Paradise and Heav ` n above ; but not a word of woman , -- nor of LOVE . fifteen arrive , the sire with anxious care , of NATURE 's work declaim , -- but not the FAIR : a age , when those , for solitude design , should be to scene of seriousness confine , nor joy of youth , nor soft idea praise the flame soon spread when Cupid 's torch be raise . AT length , when twenty summer time have run , the father to the city bring he son ; with year weigh down , the hermit scarcely know he daily course of duty to pursue ; and when Death 's venomed shaft should on he fall ; on whom could then he boy for succor call ? how life support , unknowing and unknown ? wolf , fox , bear , ne'er charity have show ; and all the sire could give he darling care , a staff and wallet , he be well aware fine patrimony , truly , for a child ! to which he mind be no way reconcile . bread few , 'twa clear , the hermit would deny , and rich he might have be you may rely ; when he draw near , the child quickly cry here 's father Philip -- haste , the alms provide ; and many pious man he friend be find , but not one female devotee around : none would he hear ; the FAIR he always flee they smile and wile the friar keep in dread . OUR hermit , when he think he darling youth ; Well fix in duty and religious truth , Conveyed he ` mong he pious friend , to learn how food to beg , and other way discern . in tear he view he son the forest quit , and fain would have he for the world unfit . the city 's palace and lofty spire , we rustick 's bosom fill with new desire . the prince 's residence great splendor show , and lively pleasure on the youth bestow . what be here ? say he ; the court , he friend reply : -- what there ? -- the mansion where the great reside : -- and these ? -- Fine statue , noble work of art : all give delight and gratitude he heart . but when the beauteous fair first catch he view , to ev ` ry other sight he bid adieu ; the palace , court , or mansion he admire , no longer prove the object he desire ; another cause of admiration rise , he breast pervade , and disturbed repose . what be this , he cry , so elegantly neat ? o tell I , father ; make my joy complete ! what give the son such exquisite delight , the parent fill with agonizing fright . to answer , howsoe'er he would no excuse , so tell the youth -- a bird they call a goose . O BEAUTEOUS bird , exclaim th ' enraptured boy , sing , sound thy voice , ` twill fill my soul with joy ; to thee I would anxiously be better know ; O father , let I have one for my own ! a thousand time I fondly ask the boon ; Let 's take it to the wood : ` tis not too soon ; Young as it be , I 'll feed it morn and night , and always make it my supreme delight .