51 Fundevogel -lrb-B- bird-foundling -rrb-B- BrothersS Grimm there be once a forester who go into the forest to hunt , and as he enter it he hear a sound of scream as if a little child be there . he follow the sound , and at last come to a high tree , and at the top of this a little child be sit , for the mother have fall asleep under the tree with the child , and a bird of prey have see it in she arm , have fly down , snatch it away , and set it on the high tree . the forester climb up , bring the child down , and think to himself , `` Thou wilt take he home with thee , and bring he up with thy Lina . '' he take it home , therefore , and the two child grow up together . the one , however , which he have find on a tree be call Fundevogel , because a bird have carry it away . Fundevogel and Lina love each other so dearly that when they do not see each other they be sad . the forester , however , have a old cook , who one evening take two pail and begin to fetch water , and do not go once only , but many time , out to the spring . Lina see this and say , `` Hark you , old Sanna , why be you fetch so much water ? '' `` if thou wilt never repeat it to anyone , I will tell thee why . '' so Lina say , no , she would never repeat it to anyone , and then the cook say , `` early to-morrow morning , when the forester be out hunting , I will heat the water , and when it be boil in the kettle , I will throw in Fundevogel , and will boil he in it . '' betime next morning the forester get up and go out hunting , and when he be go the child be still in bed . then Lina say to Fundevogel , `` if thou wilt never leave I , I too will never leave thee . '' Fundevogel say , `` neither now , nor ever will I leave thee . '' then say Lina , `` then I will tell thee . last night , old Sanna carry so many bucket of water into the house that I ask she why she be do that , and she say that if I would promise not to tell any one she would tell I , and I say I would be sure not to tell any one , and she say that early to-morrow morning when father be out hunting , she would set the kettle full of water , throw thee into it and boil thee ; but we will get up quickly , dress ourselves , and go away together . '' the two child therefore get up , dress themselves quickly , and go away . when the water in the kettle be boil , the cook go into the bed-room to fetch Fundevogel and throw he into it . but when she come in , and go to the bed , both the child be go . then she be terribly alarmed , and she say to herself , `` what shall I say now when the forester come home and see that the child be go ? they must be follow instantly to get they back again . '' then the cook send three servant after they , who be to run and overtake the child . the child , however , be sit outside the forest , and when they see from afar the three servant run , Lina say to Fundevogel , `` never leave I , and I will never leave thee . '' Fundevogel say , `` neither now , nor ever . '' then say Lina , `` do thou become a rose-tree , and I the rose upon it . '' when the three servant come to the forest , nothing be there but a rose-tree and one rise on it , but the child be nowhere . then say they , `` there be nothing to be do here , '' and they go home and tell the cook that they have see nothing in the forest but a little rose-bush with one rise on it . then the old cook scold and say , `` you simpleton , you should have cut the rose-bush in two , and have break off the rose and bring it home with you ; go , and do it once . '' they have therefore to go out and look for the second time . the child , however , see they come from a distance . then Lina say , `` Fundevogel , never leave I , and I will never leave thee . '' Fundevogel say , `` neither now , nor ever . '' Said Lina , `` then do thou become a church , and I 'll be the chandelier in it . '' so when the three servant come , nothing be there but a church , with a chandelier in it . they say therefore to each other , `` what can we do here , let we go home . '' when they get home , the cook ask if they have not find they ; so they say no , they have find nothing but a church , and that there be a chandelier in it . and the cook scold they and say , `` you fool ! why do you not pull the church to piece , and bring the chandelier home with you ? '' and now the old cook herself get on she leg , and go with the three servant in pursuit of the child . the child , however , see from afar that the three servant be come , and the cook waddle after they . then say Lina , `` Fundevogel , never leave I , and I will never leave thee . '' then say Fundevogel , `` neither now , nor ever . '' Said Lina , `` be a fishpond , and I will be the duck upon it . '' the cook , however , come up to they , and when she see the pond she lay down by it , and be about to drink it up . but the duck swam quickly to she , seize she head in its beak and draw she into the water , and there the old witch have to drown . then the child go home together , and be heartily delighted , and if they be not dead , they be live still .