82 Gambling Hansel BrothersS Grimm once upon a time there be a man who do nothing but gamble , and for that reason people never call he anything but Gambling Hansel , and as he never cease to gamble , he play away he house and all that he have . now the very day before he creditor be to take he house from he , come the Lord and St. Peter , and ask he to give they shelter for the night . then Gambling Hansel say , `` for my part , you may stay the night , but I can not give you a bed or anything to eat . '' so the Lord say he be just to take they in , and they themselves would buy something to eat , to which Gambling Hansel make no objection . Thereupon St. Peter give he three groschen , and say he be to go to the baker 's and fetch some bread . so Gambling Hansel go , but when he reach the house where the other gambling vagabond be gather together , they , although they have win all that he have , greet he clamorously , and say , `` Hansel , do come in . '' `` oh , '' say he , `` do you want to win the three groschen too ? '' on this they would not let he go . so he go in , and play away the three groschen also . meanwhile St. Peter and the Lord be wait , and as he be so long in come , they set out to meet he . when Gambling Hansel come , however , he pretend that the money have fall into the gutter , and keep rake about in it all the while to find it , but we Lord already know that he have lose it in play . St. Peter again give he three groschen , and now he do not allow himself to be lead away once more , but fetch they the loaf . we Lord then inquire if he have no wine , and he say , `` Alack , sir , the cask be all empty ! '' but the Lord say he be to go down into the cellar , for the best wine be still there . for a long time he would not believe this , but at length he say , `` well , I will go down , but I know that there be none there . '' when he turn the tap , however , lo and behold , the best of wine run out ! so he take it to they , and the two pass the night there . early next day we Lord tell Gambling Hansel that he might beg three favor . the Lord expect that he would ask to go to Heaven ; but Gambling Hansel ask for a pack of card with which he could win everything , for dice with which he would win everything , and for a tree whereon every kind of fruit would grow , and from which no one who have climb up , could descend until he bid he do so . the Lord give he all that he have ask , and depart with St. Peter . and now Gambling Hansel at once set about gambling in real earnest , and before long he have gain half the world . upon this St. Peter say to the Lord , `` Lord , this thing must not go on , he will win , and thou lose , the whole world . we must send Death to he . '' when Death appear , Gambling Hansel have just seat himself at the gaming-table , and Death say , `` Hansel , come out a while . '' but Gambling Hansel say , `` just wait a little until the game be do , and in the meantime get up into that tree out there , and gather a little fruit that we may have something to munch on we way . '' Thereupon Death climb up , but when he want to come down again , he could not , and Gambling Hansel leave he up there for seven year , during which time no one die . so St. Peter say to the Lord , `` Lord , this thing must not go on . people no longer die ; we must go ourselves . '' and they go themselves , and the Lord command Hansel to let Death come down . so Hansel go at once to Death and say to he , `` come down , '' and Death take he directly and put a end to he . they go away together and come to the next world , and then Gambling Hansel make straight for the door of Heaven , and knock at it . `` who be there ? '' `` Gambling Hansel . '' `` ah , we will have nothing to do with he ! Begone ! '' so he go to the door of Purgatory , and knock once more . `` who be there ? '' `` Gambling Hansel . '' `` ah , there be quite enough weep and wail here without he . we do not want to gamble , just go away again . '' then he go to the door of Hell , and there they let he in . there be , however , no one at home but old Lucifer and the crooked devil who have just be do they evil work in the world . and no sooner be Hansel there than he sit down to gamble again . Lucifer , however , have nothing to lose , but he mis-shapen devil , and Gambling Hansel win they from he , as with he card he could not fail to do . and now he be off again with he crooked devil , and they go to Hohenfuert and pull up a hop-pole , and with it go to Heaven and begin to thrust the pole against it , and Heaven begin to crack . so again St. Peter say , `` Lord , this thing can not go on , we must let he in , or he will throw we down from Heaven . '' and they let he in . but Gambling Hansel instantly begin to play again , and there be such a noise and confusion that there be no hearing what they themselves be say . therefore St. Peter once more say , `` Lord , this can not go on , we must throw he down , or he will make all Heaven rebellious . '' so they go to he at once , and throw he down , and he soul break into fragment , and go into the gambling vagabond who be live this very day .