GOOD HUMOUR . H. C. Andersen my father leave I the best inheritance ; to wit -- good humor . and who be my father ? why , that have nothing to do with the humor . he be lively and stout , round and fat ; and he outer and inner man be in direct contradiction to he calling . and pray what be he by profession and call in civil society ? yes , if this be to be write down and print in the very begin of a book , it be probable that many when they read it would lay the book aside , and say , `` it look so uncomfortable ; I do not like anything of that sort . '' and yet my father be neither a horse slaughterer nor a executioner ; on the contrary , he office place he at the head of the most respectable gentry of the town ; and he hold he place by right , for it be he right place . he have to go first before the bishop even , and before the prince of the blood . he always go first -- for he be the driver of the hearse ! there , now it be out ! and I will confess that when people see my father sit perch up on the omnibus of death , dress in he long , wide , black cloak , with he black-bordered three-cornered hat on he head -- and then he face , exactly as the sun be draw , round and jocund -- it be difficult for they to think of the grave and of sorrow . the face say , `` it do not matter , it do not matter ; it will be better than one think . '' you see , I have inherit my good humor from he , and also the habit of go often to the churchyard , which be a good thing to do if it be do in the right spirit ; and then I take in the _ Intelligencer _ , just as he use to do . I be not quite young . I have neither wife , nor child , nor a library ; but , as aforesaid , I take in the _ Intelligencer _ , and that be my favorite newspaper , as it be also my father 's . it be very useful , and contain everything that a man need to know -- such as who preach in the church and in the new book . and then what a lot of charity , and what a number of innocent , harmless verse be find in it ! advertisement for husband and wife , and request for interview -- all quite simple and natural . certainly , one may live merrily and be contentedly bury if one take in the _ Intelligencer _ . and , as a conclude advantage , by the end of he life a man will have such a capital store of paper , that he may use it as a soft bed , unless he prefer to rest upon wood-shavings . the newspaper and my walk to the churchyard be always my most exciting occupation -- they be like bathing-places for my good humor . the newspaper every one can read for himself . but please come with I to the churchyard ; let we wander there where the sun shine and the tree grow green . each of the narrow house be like a closed book , with the back place uppermost , so that one can only read the title and judge what the book contain , but can tell nothing about it ; but I know something of they . I hear it from my father , or find it out myself . I have it all down in my record that I write out for my own use and pleasure : all that lie here , and a few more too , be chronicle in it . now we be in the churchyard . here , behind this white railing , where once a rose tree grow -- it be go now , but a little evergreen from the next grave stretch out its green finger to make a show -- there rest a very unhappy man ; and yet , when he live , he be in what they call a good position . he have enough to live upon , and something over ; but worldly care , or to speak more correctly , he artistic taste , weigh heavily upon he . if in the evening he sit in the theater to enjoy himself thoroughly , he would be quite put out if the machinist have put too strong a light into one side of the moon , or if the sky-pieces hang down over the scene when they ought to have hang behind they , or when a palm tree be introduce into a scene represent the Berlin Zoological GardensS , or a cactus in a view of the Tyrol , or a beech tree in the far north of Norway . as if that be of any consequence . be it not quite immaterial ? who would fidget about such a trifle ? it be only make-believe , after all , and every one be expect to be amuse . then sometimes the public applaud too much to suit he taste , and sometimes too little . `` they be like wet wood this evening , '' he would say ; `` they will not kindle at all ! '' and then he would look round to see what kind of people they be ; and sometimes he would find they laugh at the wrong time , when they ought not to have laugh , and that vex he ; and he fret , and be a unhappy man , and at last fret himself into he grave . here rest a very happy man . that be to say , a very grand man . he be of high birth , and that be lucky for he , for otherwise he would never have be anything worth speaking of ; and nature order all that very wisely , so that it be quite charming when we think of it . he use to go about in a coat embroider back and front , and appear in the saloon of society just like one of those costly , pearl-embroidered bell-pulls , which have always a good , thick , serviceable cord behind they to do the work . he likewise have a good stout cord behind he , in the shape of a substitute , who do he duty , and who still continue to do it behind another embroidered bell-pull . everything be so nicely manage , it be enough to put one into a good humor . -lrb-B- illustration : the CHURCHYARD NARRATION . aaaaa -rrb-B- aaa here rest -- well , it be a very mournful reflection -- here rest a man who spend sixty-seven year consider how he should get a good idea . the object of he life be to say a good thing , and at last he feel convince in he own mind that he have get one , and be so glad of it that he die of pure joy at have catch a idea at last . nobody derive any benefit from it , and no one even hear what the good thing be . now , I can fancy that this same good thing will not let he live quiet in he grave ; for let we suppose that it be a good thing which can only be bring out at breakfast if it be to make a effect , and that he , accord to the received opinion concern ghost , can only rise and walk at midnight . why , then the good thing would not suit the time , and the man must carry he good idea down with he again . what a unhappy man he must be ! here rest a remarkably stingy woman . during she lifetime she use to get up at night and mew , so that the neighbor might think she keep a cat -- she be so remarkably stingy . here be a maiden of another kind . when the canary bird of the heart begin to chirp , reason put she finger in she ear . the maiden be go to be marry , but -- well , it be a every-day story , and we will let the dead rest . here sleep a widow who carry melody in she mouth and gall in she heart . she use to go out for prey in the family round about ; and the prey she hunt be she neighbor ' fault , and she be a indefatigable hunter . here be a family sepulchre . every member of this family hold so firmly to the opinion of the rest , that if all the world , and the newspaper into the bargain , say of a certain thing it be so and so , and the little boy come home from school and say , `` I have learn it thus and thus , '' they declare he opinion to be the only true one , because he belong to the family . and it be a acknowledged fact , that if the yard-cock of the family crow at midnight , they would declare it be morning , though the watchman and all the clock in the city be cry out that it be twelve o'clock at night . the great poet Goethe conclude he `` Faust '' with the word `` may be continue ; '' and we wanderings in the churchyard may be continue too . if any of my friend , or my non-friends , go on too fast for I , I go out to my favorite spot and select a mound , and bury he or she there -- bury that person who be yet alive ; and there those I bury must stay till they come back as new and improved character . I inscribe they life and they deed , look at in my fashion , in my record ; and that be what all people ought to do . they ought not to be vex when any one go on ridiculously , but bury he directly , and maintain they good humor , and keep to the _ Intelligencer _ , which be often a book write by the people with its hand guide . when the time come for I to be bind with my history in the board of the grave , I hope they will put up as my epitaph , `` a good-humoured one . '' and that be my story .