108 Hans the Hedgehog BrothersS Grimm THERE be once a countryman who have money and land in plenty , but how rich soever he be , one thing be still want in he happiness he have no child . often when he go into the town with the other peasant they mock he and ask why he have no child . at last he become angry , and when he get home he say , `` I will have a child , even if it be a hedgehog . '' then he wife have a child , that be a hedgehog in the upper part of he body , and a boy in the lower , and when she see the child , she be terrify , and say , `` See , there thou hast bring ill-luck on we . '' then say the man , `` what can be do now ? the boy must be christen , but we shall not be able to get a godfather for he . '' the woman say , `` and we can not call he anything else but Hans the Hedgehog . '' when he be christen , the parson say , `` he can not go into any ordinary bed because of he spike . '' so a little straw be put behind the stove , and Hans the Hedgehog be lay on it . he mother could not suckle he , for he would have prick she with he quill . so he lay there behind the stove for eight year , and he father be tire of he and think , `` if he would but die ! '' he do not die , however , but remain lie there . now it happen that there be a fair in the town , and the peasant be about to go to it , and ask he wife what he should bring back with he for she . `` a little meat and a couple of white roll which be want for the house , '' say she . then he ask the servant , and she want a pair of slipper and some stocking with clock . at last he say also , `` and what wilt thou have , Hans my Hedgehog ? '' `` dear father , '' he say , `` do bring I bagpipe . '' when , therefore , the father come home again , he give he wife what he have buy for she ; meat and white roll , and then he give the maid the slipper , and the stocking with clock ; and , lastly , he go behind the stove , and give Hans the Hedgehog the bagpipe . and when Hans the Hedgehog have the bagpipe , he say , `` dear father , do go to the forge and get the cock shod , and then I will ride away , and never come back again . '' on this , the father be delighted to think that he be go to get rid of he , and have the cock shod for he , and when it be do , Hans the Hedgehog get on it , and ride away , but take swine and ass with he which he intend to keep in the forest . when they get there he make the cock fly on to a high tree with he , and there he sit for many a long year , and watch he ass and swine until the herd be quite large , and he father know nothing about he . while he be sit in the tree , however , he play he bagpipe , and make music which be very beautiful . once a king come travel by who have lose he way and hear the music . he be astonish at it , and send he servant forth to look all round and see from whence this music come . he spy about , but see nothing but a little animal sit up aloft on the tree , which look like a cock with a hedgehog on it which make this music . then the King tell the servant he be to ask why he sit there , and if he know the road which lead to he kingdom . so Hans the Hedgehog descend from the tree , and say he would show the way if the King would write a bond and promise he whatever he first meet in the royal courtyard as soon as he arrive at home . then the King thought , `` I can easily do that , Hans the Hedgehog understand nothing , and I can write what I like . '' so the King take pen and ink and write something , and when he have do it , Hans the Hedgehog show he the way , and he get safely home . but he daughter , when she see he from afar , be so overjoyed that she run to meet he , and kiss he . then he remember Hans the Hedgehog , and tell she what have happen , and that he have be force to promise whatsoever first meet he when he get home , to a very strange animal which sit on a cock as if it be a horse , and make beautiful music , but that instead of write that he should have what he want , he have write that he should not have it . Thereupon the princess be glad , and say he have do well , for she never would have go away with the Hedgehog . Hans the Hedgehog , however , look after he ass and pig , and be always merry and sit on the tree and play he bagpipe . now it come to pass that another King come journey by with he attendant and runner , and he also have lose he way , and do not know how to get home again because the forest be so large . he likewise hear the beautiful music from a distance , and ask he runner what that could be , and tell he to go and see . then the runner go under the tree , and see the cock sit at the top of it , and Hans the Hedgehog on the cock . the runner ask he what he be about up there ? `` I be keep my ass and my pig ; but what be you desire ? '' the messenger say that they have lose they way , and could not get back into they own kingdom , and ask if he would not show they the way . then Hans the Hedgehog get down the tree with the cock , and tell the age king that he would show he the way , if he would give he for he own whatsoever first meet he in front of he royal palace . the King say , `` yes , '' and write a promise to Hans the Hedgehog that he should have this . that do , Hans ride on before he on the cock , and point out the way , and the King reach he kingdom again in safety . when he get to the courtyard , there be great rejoicing . now he have a only daughter who be very beautiful ; she run to meet he , throw she arm round he neck , and be delighted to have she old father back again . she ask he where in the world he have be so long . so he tell she how he have lose he way , and have very nearly not come back at all , but that as he be travel through a great forest , a creature , half hedgehog , half man , who be sit astride a cock in a high tree , and make music , have show he the way and help he to get out , but that in return he have promise he whatsoever first meet he in the royal court-yard , and how that be she herself , which make he unhappy now . but on this she promise that , for love of she father , she would willingly go with this Hans if he come . Hans the Hedgehog , however , take care of he pig , and the pig multiply until they become so many in number that the whole forest be fill with they . then Hans the Hedgehog resolve not to live in the forest any longer , and send word to he father to have every stye in the village empty , for he be come with such a great herd that all might kill who wish to do so . when he father hear that , he be trouble , for he think Hans the Hedgehog have die long ago . Hans the Hedgehog , however , seat himself on the cock , and drive the pig before he into the village , and order the slaughter to begin . ha ! but there be a killing and a chop that might have be hear two mile off ! after this Hans the Hedgehog say , `` Father , let I have the cock shod once more at the forge , and then I will ride away and never come back as long as I live . '' then the father have the cock shod once more , and be please that Hans the Hedgehog would never return again . Hans the Hedgehog ride away to the first kingdom . there the King have command that whosoever come mount on a cock and have bagpipe with he should be shoot at , cut down , or stab by everyone , so that he might not enter the palace . when , therefore , Hans the Hedgehog come ride thither , they all press forward against he with they pike , but he spur the cock and it fly up over the gate in front of the King 's window and light there , and Hans cry that the King must give he what he have promise , or he would take both he life and he daughter 's . then the King begin to speak he daughter fair , and to beg she to go away with Hans in order to save she own life and she father 's . so she dress herself in white , and she father give she a carriage with six horse and magnificent attendant together with gold and possession . she seat herself in the carriage , and place Hans the Hedgehog beside she with the cock and the bagpipe , and then they take leave and drive away , and the King think he should never see she again . he be however , deceive in he expectation , for when they be at a short distance from the town , Hans the Hedgehog take she pretty clothes off , and pierce she with he hedgehog 's skin until she bleed all over . `` that be the reward of you falseness , '' say he , `` go you way , I will not have you ! '' and on that he chase she home again , and she be disgrace for the rest of she life . Hans the Hedgehog , however , ride on further on the cock , with he bagpipe , to the dominion of the second king to whom he have show the way . this one , however , have arrange that if any one resemble Hans the Hedgehog should come , they be to present arm , give he safe conduct , cry long life to he , and lead he to the royal palace . but when the King 's daughter see he she be terrify , for he look quite too strange . she remember however , that she could not change she mind , for she have give she promise to she father . so Hans the Hedgehog be welcome by she , and marry to she , and have to go with she to the royal table , and she seat herself by he side , and they eat and drank . when the evening come and they want to go to sleep , she be afraid of he quill , but he tell she she be not to fear , for no harm would befall she , and he tell the old king that he be to appoint four man to watch by the door of the chamber , and light a great fire , and when he enter the room and be about to get into bed , he would creep out of he hedgehog 's skin and leave it lie there by the bedside , and that the man be to run nimbly to it , throw it in the fire , and stay by it until it be consume . when the clock strike eleven , he go into the chamber , strip off the hedgehog 's skin , and leave it lie by the bed . then come the man and fetch it swiftly , and throw it in the fire ; and when the fire have consume it , he be deliver , and lay there in bed in human form , but he be coal-black as if he have be burnt . the King send for he physician who wash he with precious salve , and anoint he , and he become white , and be a handsome young man . when the King 's daughter see that she be glad , and the next morning they arise joyfully , eat and drank , and then the marriage be properly solemnize , and Hans the Hedgehog receive the kingdom from the age King . when several year have pass he go with he wife to he father , and say that he be he son . the father , however , declare he have no son he have never have but one , and he have be bear like a hedgehog with spike , and have go forth into the world . then Hans make himself know , and the old father rejoice and go with he to he kingdom . my tale be do , and away it have run to little August 's house .