15 Hansel and Grethel BrothersS Grimm Hard by a great forest dwell a poor wood-cutter with he wife and he two child . the boy be call Hansel and the girl Grethel . he have little to bite and to break , and once when great scarcity fall on the land , he could no longer procure daily bread . now when he think over this by night in he bed , and toss about in he anxiety , he groan and say to he wife , `` what be to become of we ? how be we to feed we poor child , when we no longer have anything even for ourselves ? '' `` I 'll tell you what , husband , '' answer the woman , `` early to-morrow morning we will take the child out into the forest to where it be the thickest , there we will light a fire for they , and give each of they one piece of bread more , and then we will go to we work and leave they alone . they will not find the way home again , and we shall be rid of they . '' `` no , wife , '' say the man , `` I will not do that ; how can I bear to leave my child alone in the forest ? -- the wild animal would soon come and tear they to piece . '' `` O , thou fool ! '' say she , `` then we must all four die of hunger , thou mayest as well plane the plank for we coffin , '' and she leave he no peace until he consent . `` but I feel very sorry for the poor child , all the same , '' say the man . the two child have also not be able to sleep for hunger , and have hear what they step-mother have say to they father . Grethel weep bitter tear , and say to Hansel , `` now all be over with we . '' `` be quiet , Grethel , '' say Hansel , `` do not distress thyself , I will soon find a way to help we . '' and when the old folk have fall asleep , he get up , put on he little coat , open the door below , and creep outside . the moon shone brightly , and the white pebble which lay in front of the house glitter like real silver penny . Hansel stoop and put as many of they in the little pocket of he coat as he could possibly get in . then he go back and say to Grethel , `` be comfort , dear little sister , and sleep in peace , God will not forsake we , '' and he lay down again in he bed . when day dawn , but before the sun have rise , the woman come and awake the two child , say `` get up , you sluggard ! we be go into the forest to fetch wood . '' she give each a little piece of bread , and say , `` there be something for you dinner , but do not eat it up before then , for you will get nothing else . '' Grethel take the bread under she apron , as Hansel have the stone in he pocket . then they all set out together on the way to the forest . when they have walk a short time , Hansel stand still and peep back at the house , and do so again and again . he father say , `` Hansel , what art thou look at there and stay behind for ? mind what thou art about , and do not forget how to use thy leg . '' `` ah , father , '' say Hansel , `` I be look at my little white cat , which be sit up on the roof , and want to say good-bye to I . '' the wife say , `` fool , that be not thy little cat , that be the morning sun which be shine on the chimney . '' Hansel , however , have not be look back at the cat , but have be constantly throw one of the white pebble-stones out of he pocket on the road . when they have reach the middle of the forest , the father say , `` now , child , pile up some wood , and I will light a fire that you may not be cold . '' Hansel and Grethel gather brushwood together , as high as a little hill . the brushwood be light , and when the flame be burn very high , the woman say , `` now , child , lay yourselve down by the fire and rest , we will go into the forest and cut some wood . when we have do , we will come back and fetch you away . '' Hansel and Grethel sit by the fire , and when noon come , each eat a little piece of bread , and as they hear the stroke of the wood-axe they believe that they father be near . it be not , however , the axe , it be a branch which he have fasten to a withered tree which the wind be blow backwards and forwards . and as they have be sit such a long time , they eye shut with fatigue , and they fall fast asleep . when at last they awake , it be already dark night . Grethel begin to cry and say , `` how be we to get out of the forest now ? '' but Hansel comfort she and say , `` just wait a little , until the moon have rise , and then we will soon find the way . '' and when the full moon have rise , Hansel take he little sister by the hand , and follow the pebble which shine like newly-coined silver piece , and show they the way . they walk the whole night long , and by break of day come once more to they father 's house . they knock at the door , and when the woman open it and see that it be Hansel and Grethel , she say , `` you naughty child , why have you sleep so long in the forest ? -- we think you be never come back at all ! '' the father , however , rejoice , for it have cut he to the heart to leave they behind alone . not long afterwards , there be once more great scarcity in all part , and the child hear they mother say at night to they father , `` everything be eat again , we have one half loaf leave , and after that there be a end . the child must go , we will take they farther into the wood , so that they will not find they way out again ; there be no other means of save ourselves ! '' the man 's heart be heavy , and he think `` it would be better for thee to share the last mouthful with thy child . '' the woman , however , would listen to nothing that he have to say , but scold and reproach he . he who say a must say B , likewise , and as he have yield the first time , he have to do so a second time also . the child be , however , still awake and have hear the conversation . when the old folk be asleep , Hansel again get up , and want to go out and pick up pebble as he have do before , but the woman have lock the door , and Hansel could not get out . nevertheless he comfort he little sister , and say , `` do not cry , Grethel , go to sleep quietly , the good God will help we . '' early in the morning come the woman , and take the child out of they bed . they bit of bread be give to they , but it be still smaller than the time before . on the way into the forest Hansel crumble he in he pocket , and often stand still and throw a morsel on the ground . `` Hansel , why dost thou stop and look round ? '' say the father , `` go on . '' `` I be look back at my little pigeon which be sit on the roof , and want to say good-bye to I , '' answer Hansel . `` Simpleton ! '' say the woman , `` that be not thy little pigeon , that be the morning sun that be shine on the chimney . '' Hansel , however , little by little , throw all the crumb on the path . the woman lead the child still deeper into the forest , where they have never in they life be before . then a great fire be again make , and the mother say , `` just sit there , you child , and when you be tire you may sleep a little ; we be go into the forest to cut wood , and in the evening when we be do , we will come and fetch you away . '' when it be noon , Grethel share she piece of bread with Hansel , who have scatter he by the way . then they fall asleep and evening come and go , but no one come to the poor child . they do not awake until it be dark night , and Hansel comfort he little sister and say , `` just wait , Grethel , until the moon rise , and then we shall see the crumb of bread which I have strew about , they will show we we way home again . '' when the moon come they set out , but they find no crumb , for the many thousand of bird which fly about in the wood and field have pick they all up . Hansel say to Grethel , `` we shall soon find the way , '' but they do not find it . they walk the whole night and all the next day too from morning till evening , but they do not get out of the forest , and be very hungry , for they have nothing to eat but two or three berry , which grow on the ground . and as they be so weary that they leg would carry they no longer , they lay down beneath a tree and fall asleep . it be now three morning since they have leave they father 's house . they begin to walk again , but they always get deeper into the forest , and if help do not come soon , they must die of hunger and weariness . when it be mid-day , they see a beautiful snow-white bird sit on a bough , which sing so delightfully that they stand still and listen to it . and when it have finish its song , it spread its wing and fly away before they , and they follow it until they reach a little house , on the roof of which it alight ; and when they come quite up to little house they see that it be build of bread and cover with cake , but that the window be of clear sugar . `` we will set to work on that , '' say Hansel , `` and have a good meal . I will eat a bit of the roof , and thou , Grethel , canst eat some of the window , it will taste sweet . '' Hansel reach up above , and break off a little of the roof to try how it taste , and Grethel lean against the window and nibble at the pane . then a soft voice cry from the room , `` Nibble , nibble , gnaw , who be nibble at my little house ? '' the child answer , `` the wind , the wind , the heaven-born wind , '' and go on eating without disturb themselves . Hansel , who think the roof taste very nice , tear down a great piece of it , and Grethel push out the whole of one round window-pane , sit down , and enjoy herself with it . suddenly the door open , and a very , very old woman , who support herself on crutch , come creep out . Hansel and Grethel be so terribly frightened that they let fall what they have in they hand . the old woman , however , nod she head , and say , `` oh , you dear child , who have bring you here ? do come in , and stay with I . no harm shall happen to you . '' she take they both by the hand , and lead they into she little house . then good food be set before they , milk and pancake , with sugar , apple , and nut . afterwards two pretty little bed be cover with clean white linen , and Hansel and Grethel lay down in they , and think they be in heaven . the old woman have only pretend to be so kind ; she be in reality a wicked witch , who lay in wait for child , and have only build the little house of bread in order to entice they there . when a child fall into she power , she kill it , cook and eat it , and that be a feast day with she . witch have red eye , and can not see far , but they have a keen scent like the beast , and be aware when human being draw near . when Hansel and Grethel come into she neighborhood , she laugh maliciously , and say mockingly , `` I have they , they shall not escape I again ! '' early in the morning before the child be awake , she be already up , and when she see both of they sleep and look so pretty , with they plump red cheek , she mutter to herself , `` that will be a dainty mouthful ! '' then she seize Hansel with she shrivelled hand , carry he into a little stable , and shut he in with a grated door . he might scream as he like , that be of no use . then she go to Grethel , shake she till she awake , and cry , `` get up , lazy thing , fetch some water , and cook something good for thy brother , he be in the stable outside , and be to be make fat . when he be fat , I will eat he . '' Grethel begin to weep bitterly , but it be all in vain , she be force to do what the wicked witch order she . and now the best food be cook for poor Hansel , but Grethel get nothing but crab-shells . every morning the woman creep to the little stable , and cry , `` Hansel , stretch out thy finger that I may feel if thou wilt soon be fat . '' Hansel , however , stretch out a little bone to she , and the old woman , who have dim eye , could not see it , and think it be Hansel 's finger , and be astonish that there be no way of fattening he . when four week have go by , and Hansel still continue thin , she be seize with impatience and would not wait any longer . `` Hola , Grethel , '' she cry to the girl , `` be active , and bring some water . let Hansel be fat or lean , to-morrow I will kill he , and cook he . '' ah , how the poor little sister do lament when she have to fetch the water , and how she tear do flow down over she cheek ! `` Dear God , do help we , '' she cry . `` if the wild beast in the forest have but devour we , we should at any rate have die together . '' `` just keep thy noise to thyself , '' say the old woman , `` all that will not help thee at all . '' early in the morning , Grethel have to go out and hang up the cauldron with the water , and light the fire . `` we will bake first , '' say the old woman , `` I have already heat the oven , and knead the dough . '' she push poor Grethel out to the oven , from which flame of fire be already dart . `` Creep in , '' say the witch , `` and see if it be properly heat , so that we can shut the bread in . '' and when once Grethel be inside , she intend to shut the oven and let she bake in it , and then she would eat she , too . but Grethel see what she have in she mind , and say , `` I do not know how I be to do it ; how do you get in ? '' `` Silly goose , '' say the old woman , `` the door be big enough ; just look , I can get in myself ! '' and she creep up and thrust she head into the oven . then Grethel give she a push that drive she far into it , and shut the iron door , and fasten the bolt . oh ! then she begin to howl quite horribly , but Grethel run away , and the godless witch be miserably burnt to death . Grethel , however , run like lightning to Hansel , open he little stable , and cry , `` Hansel , we be save ! the old witch be dead ! '' then Hansel spring out like a bird from its cage when the door be open for it . how they do rejoice and embrace each other , and dance about and kiss each other ! and as they have no longer any need to fear she , they go into the witch 's house , and in every corner there stand chest full of pearl and jewel . `` these be far better than pebble ! '' say Hansel , and thrust into he pocket whatever could be get in , and Grethel say , `` I , too , will take something home with I , '' and fill she pinafore full . `` but now we will go away . '' say Hansel , `` that we may get out of the witch 's forest . '' when they have walk for two hour , they come to a great piece of water . `` we can not get over , '' say Hansel , `` I see no foot-plank , and no bridge . '' `` and no boat cross either , '' answer Grethel , `` but a white duck be swim there ; if I ask she , she will help we over . '' then she cry , `` little duck , little duck , dost thou see , Hansel and Grethel be wait for thee ? there be never a plank , or bridge in sight , take we across on thy back so white . '' the duck come to they , and Hansel seat himself on its back , and tell he sister to sit by he . `` no , '' reply Grethel , `` that will be too heavy for the little duck ; she shall take we across , one after the other . '' the good little duck do so , and when they be once safely across and have walk for a short time , the forest seem to be more and more familiar to they , and at length they see from afar they father 's house . then they begin to run , rush into the parlor , and throw themselves into they father 's arm . the man have not know one happy hour since he have leave the child in the forest ; the woman , however , be dead . Grethel empty she pinafore until pearl and precious stone run about the room , and Hansel throw one handful after another out of he pocket to add to they . then all anxiety be at a end , and they live together in perfect happiness . my tale be do , there run a mouse , whosoever catch it , may make himself a big fur cap out of it .