HARISAMAN Indian Writer there be a certain Brahman in a certain village , name Harisarman . he be poor and foolish and in evil case for want of employment , and he have very many child , that he might reap the fruit of he misdeed in a former life . he wander about beg with he family , and at last he reach a certain city , and enter the service of a rich householder call Sthuladatta . he son become keeper of Sthuladatta 's cow and other property , and he wife a servant to he , and he himself live near he house , perform the duty of a attendant . one day there be a feast on account of the marriage of the daughter of Sthuladatta , largely attend by many friend of the bride - groom , and merry-makers . Harisarman hope that he would be able to fill himself up to the throat with ghee and flesh and other dainty , and get the same for he family , in the house of he patron . while he be anxiously expect to be feed , no one thought of he . then he be distressed at get nothing to eat , and he say to he wife at night , `` it be owe to my poverty and stupidity that I be treat with such disrespect here ; so I will pretend by means of a artifice to possess a knowledge of magic , so that I may become a object of respect to this Sthuladatta ; so , when you get a opportunity , tell he that I possess magical knowledge . '' he say this to she , and after turn the matter over in he mind , while people be asleep he take away from the house of Sthuladatta a horse on which he master 's son-in-law ride . he place it in concealment at some distance , and in the morning the friend of the bridegroom could not find the horse , though they search in every direction . then , while Sthuladatta be distressed at the evil omen , and search for the thief who have carry off the horse , the wife of Harisarman come and say to he , `` my husband be a wise man , skilled in astrology and magical science ; he can get the horse back for you ; why do you not ask he ? '' when Sthuladatta hear that , he call Harisarman , who say , `` yesterday I be forget , but to-day , now the horse be steal , I be call to mind , '' and Sthuladatta then propitiate the Brahman with these word -- `` I forget you , forgive I '' -- and ask he to tell he who have take away they horse . then Harisarman draw all kind of pretended diagram , and say : `` the horse have be place by thief on the boundary line south from this place . it be conceal there , and before it be carry off to a distance , as it will be at close of day , go quickly and bring it . '' when they hear that , many man run and bring the horse quickly , praise the discernment of Harisarman . then Harisarman be honor by all man as a sage , and dwelt there in happiness , honor by Sthuladatta . now , as day go on , much treasure , both of gold and jewel , have be steal by a thief from the palace of the king . as the thief be not know , the king quickly summon Harisarman on account of he reputation for knowledge of magic . and he , when summon , try to gain time , and say , `` I will tell you to-morrow , '' and then he be place in a chamber by the king , and carefully guard . and he be sad because he have pretend to have knowledge . now in that palace there be a maid name Jihva -lrb-B- which mean Tongue -rrb-B- , who , with the assistance of she brother , have steal that treasure from the interior of the palace . she , be alarm at Harisarman 's knowledge , go at night and apply she ear to the door of that chamber in order to find out what he be about . and Harisarman , who be alone inside , be at that very moment blame he own tongue , that have make a vain assumption of knowledge . he say : `` O Tongue , what be this that you have do through you greediness ? wicked one , you will soon receive punishment in full . '' when Jihva hear this , she think , in she terror , that she have be discover by this wise man , and she manage to get in where he be , and fall at he foot , she say to the suppose wizard : `` Brahman , here I be , that Jihva whom you have discover to be the thief of the treasure , and after I take it I bury it in the earth in a garden behind the palace , under a pomegranate tree . so spare I , and receive the small quantity of gold which be in my possession . '' when Harisarman hear that , he say to she proudly : `` Depart , I know all this ; I know the past , present and future ; but I will not denounce you , be a miserable creature that have implore my protection . but whatever gold be in you possession you must give back to I . '' when he say this to the maid , she consent , and depart quickly . but Harisarman reflect in he astonishment : `` Fate bring about , as if in sport , thing impossible , for when calamity be so near , who would have think chance would have bring we success ? while I be blame my jihva , the thief Jihva suddenly fling herself at my foot . secret crime manifest themselves by means of fear . '' thus think , he pass the night happily in the chamber . and in the morning he bring the king , by some skilful parade of pretended knowledge into the garden , and lead he up to the treasure , which be bury under the pomegranate tree , and say that the thief have escape with a part of it . then the king be pleased , and give he the revenue of many village . but the minister , name Devajnanin , whisper in the king 's ear : `` how can a man possess such knowledge unattainable by man , without have study the book of magic ; you may be certain that this be a specimen of the way he make a dishonest livelihood , by have a secret intelligence with thief . it will be much better to test he by some new artifice . '' then the king of he own accord bring a covered pitcher into which he have throw a frog , and say to Harisarman , `` Brahman , if you can guess what there be in this pitcher , I will do you great honor to-day . '' when the Brahman Harisarman hear that , he think that he last hour have come , and he call to mind the pet name of `` Froggie '' which he father have give he in he childhood in sport , and , impel by luck , he call to himself by he pet name , lament he hard fate , and suddenly call out : `` this be a fine pitcher for you , Froggie ; it will soon become the swift destroyer of you helpless self . '' the people there , when they hear he say that , raise a shout of applause , because he speech chime in so well with the object present to he , and murmur , `` ah ! a great sage , he know even about the frog ! '' then the king , think that this be all due to knowledge of divination , be highly delighted , and give Harisarman the revenue of more village , with gold , a umbrella , and state carriage of all kind . so Harisarman prosper in the world .