41 Herr Korbes BrothersS Grimm there be once a cock and a hen who want to take a journey together . so the cock build a beautiful carriage , which have four red wheel , and harness four mouse to it . the hen seat herself in it with the cock , and they drive away together . not long afterwards they meet a cat who say , `` where be you go ? '' the cock reply , `` we be go to the house of Herr Korbes . '' `` take I with you , '' say the cat . the cock answer , `` most willingly , get up behind , lest you fall off in front . take great care not to dirty my little red wheel . and you little wheel , roll on , and you little mouse pipe out , as we go forth on we way to the house of Herr Korbes . '' after this come a millstone , then a egg , then a duck , then a pin , and at last a needle , who all seat themselves in the carriage , and drive with they . when , however , they reach the house of Herr Korbes , Herr Korbes be not there . the mouse draw the carriage into the barn , the hen fly with the cock upon a perch . the cat sit down by the hearth , the duck on the well-pole . the egg roll itself into a towel , the pin stick itself into the chair-cushion , the needle jump on to the bed in the middle of the pillow , and the millstone lay itself over the door . then Herr Korbes come home , go to the hearth , and be about to light the fire , when the cat throw a quantity of ash in he face . he run into the kitchen in a great hurry to wash it off , and the duck splash some water in he face . he want to dry it with the towel , but the egg roll up against he , break , and glue up he eye . he want to rest , and sit down in the chair , and then the pin prick he . he fall in a passion , and throw himself on he bed , but as soon as he lay he head on the pillow , the needle prick he , so that he scream aloud , and be just go to run out into the wide world in he rage , but when he come to the house-door , the millstone leap down and strike he dead . Herr Korbes must have be a very wicked man !