HOW SUN , MOON , AND WIND go OUT to DINNER Indian Writer one day Sun , Moon , and Wind go out to dine with they uncle and aunt Thunder and Lightning . they mother -lrb-B- one of the most distant Stars you see far up in the sky -rrb-B- wait alone for she child 's return . now both Sun and Wind be greedy and selfish . they enjoy the great feast that have be prepare for they , without a thought of save any of it to take home to they mother -- but the gentle moon do not forget she . of every dainty dish that be bring round , she place a small portion under one of she beautiful long finger-nails , that Star might also have a share in the treat . on they return , they mother , who have keep watch for they all night long with she little bright eye , say , `` well , child , what have you bring home for I ? '' then Sun -lrb-B- who be eldest -rrb-B- say , `` I have bring nothing home for you . I go out to enjoy myself with my friend -- not to fetch a dinner for my mother ! '' and Wind say , `` neither have I bring anything home for you , mother . you could hardly expect I to bring a collection of good thing for you , when I merely go out for my own pleasure . '' but Moon say , `` Mother , fetch a plate , see what I have bring you . '' and shake she hand she shower down such a choice dinner as never be see before . then Star turn to Sun and speak thus , `` because you go out to amuse yourself with you friend , and feast and enjoy yourself , without any thought of you mother at home -- you shall be curse . Henceforth , you ray shall ever be hot and scorching , and shall burn all that they touch . and man shall hate you , and cover they head when you appear . '' -lrb-B- and that be why the Sun be so hot to this day . -rrb-B- then she turn to wind and say , `` you also who forget you mother in the midst of you selfish pleasure -- hear you doom . you shall always blow in the hot dry weather , and shall parch and shrivel all live thing . and man shall detest and avoid you from this very time . '' -lrb-B- and that be why the wind in the hot weather be still so disagreeable . -rrb-B- but to Moon she say , `` Daughter , because you remember you mother , and keep for she a share in you own enjoyment , from henceforth you shall be ever cool , and calm , and bright . no noxious glare shall accompany you pure ray , and man shall always call you ` bless . '' ' -lrb-B- and that be why the moon 's light be so soft , and cool , and beautiful even to this day . -rrb-B-