HOW a OLD MAN lose he WEN . Japanese Writer many , many year ago there live a good old man who have a wen like a tennis-ball grow out of he right cheek . this lump be a great disfigurement to the old man , and so annoyed he that for many year he spend all he time and money in try to get rid of it . he try everything he could think of . he consult many doctor far and near , and take all kind of medicine both internally and externally . but it be all of no use . the lump only grow bigger and bigger till it be nearly as big as he face , and in despair he give up all hope of ever lose it , and resign himself to the thought of have to carry the lump on he face all he life . one day the firewood give out in he kitchen , so , as he wife want some at once , the old man take he ax and set out for the wood up among the hill not very far from he home . it be a fine day in the early autumn , and the old man enjoy the fresh air and be in no hurry to get home . so the whole afternoon pass quickly while he be chop wood , and he have collect a goodly pile to take back to he wife . when the day begin to draw to a close , he turn he face homeward . the old man have not go far on he way down the mountain pass when the sky cloud and rain begin to fall heavily . he look about for some shelter , but there be not even a charcoal-burner 's hut near . at last he espy a large hole in the hollow trunk of a tree . the hole be near the ground , so he creep in easily , and sit down in hope that he have only be overtake by a mountain shower , and that the weather would soon clear . but much to the old man 's disappointment , instead of clear the rain fall more and more heavily , and finally a heavy thunderstorm break over the mountain . the thunder roar so terrifically , and the heaven seem to be so ablaze with lightning , that the old man could hardly believe himself to be alive . he think that he must die of fright . at last , however , the sky clear , and the whole country be aglow in the ray of the set sun . the old man 's spirit revive when he look out at the beautiful twilight , and he be about to step out from he strange hiding-place in the hollow tree when the sound of what seem like the approach step of several people catch he ear . he at once think that he friend have come to look for he , and he be delight at the idea of have some jolly companion with whom to walk home . but on look out from the tree , what be he amazement to see , not he friend , but hundred of demon come towards the spot . the more he look , the greater be he astonishment . some of these demon be as large as giant , other have great big eye out of all proportion to the rest of they body , other again have absurdly long nose , and some have such big mouth that they seem to open from ear to ear . all have horn grow on they forehead . the old man be so surprised at what he see that he lose he balance and fall out of the hollow tree . fortunately for he the demon do not see he , as the tree be in the background . so he pick himself up and creep back into the tree . while he be sit there and wonder impatiently when he would be able to get home , he hear the sound of gay music , and then some of the demon begin to sing . `` what be these creature do ? '' say the old man to himself . `` I will look out , it sound very amusing . '' on peep out , the old man see that the demon chief himself be actually sit with he back against the tree in which he have take refuge , and all the other demon be sit round , some drinking and some dancing . Food and wine be spread before they on the ground , and the demon be evidently have a great entertainment and enjoy themselves immensely . it make the old man laugh to see they strange antic . `` how amusing this be ! '' laugh the old man to himself `` I be now quite old , but I have never see anything so strange in all my life . '' he be so interested and excited in watch all that the demon be do , that he forget himself and step out of the tree and stand look on . the demon chief be just take a big cup of SAKE and watch one of the demon dancing . in a little while he say with a bored air : `` you dance be rather monotonous . I be tire of watch it . be not there any one amongst you all who can dance better than this fellow ? '' now the old man have be fond of dance all he life , and be quite a expert in the art , and he know that he could do much better than the demon . `` Shall I go and dance before these demon and let they see what a human being can do ? it may be dangerous , for if I do not please they they may kill I ! '' say the old fellow to himself . he fear , however , be soon overcome by he love of dancing . in a few minute he could restrain himself no longer , and come out before the whole party of demon and begin to dance at once . the old man , realize that he life probably depend on whether he please these strange creature or not , exert he skill and wit to the utmost . the demon be at first very surprised to see a man so fearlessly take part in they entertainment , and then they surprise soon give place to admiration . `` how strange ! '' exclaim the horn chief . `` I never see such a skillful dancer before ! he dance admirably ! '' when the old man have finish he dance , the big demon say : `` thank you very much for you amusing dance . now give we the pleasure of drink a cup of wine with we , '' and with these word he hand he he largest wine-cup . the old man thank he very humbly : `` I do not expect such kindness from you lordship . I fear I have only disturbed you pleasant party by my unskillful dancing . '' `` no , no , '' answer the big demon . `` you must come often and dance for we . you skill have give we much pleasure . '' the old man thank he again and promise to do so . `` then will you come again to-morrow , old man ? '' ask the demon . `` certainly , I will , '' answer the old man . `` then you must leave some pledge of you word with we , '' say the demon . `` whatever you like , '' say the old man . `` now what be the best thing he can leave with we as a pledge ? '' ask the demon , look round . then say one of the demon 's attendant kneel behind the chief : `` the token he leave with we must be the most important thing to he in he possession . I see the old man have a wen on he right cheek . now mortal man consider such a wen very fortunate . let my lord take the lump from the old man 's right cheek , and he will surely come to - morrow , if only to get that back . '' `` you be very clever , '' say the demon chief , give he horn a approve nod . then he stretch out a hairy arm and claw-like hand , and take the great lump from the old man 's right cheek . strange to say , it come off as easily as a ripe plum from the tree at the demon 's touch , and then the merry troop of demon suddenly vanish . the old man be lose in bewilderment by all that have happen . he hardly know for some time where he be . when he come to understand what have happen to he , he be delighted to find that the lump on he face , which have for so many year disfigure he , have really be take away without any pain to himself . he put up he hand to feel if any scar remain , but find that he right cheek be as smooth as he left . the sun have long set , and the young moon have rise like a silver crescent in the sky . the old man suddenly realize how late it be and begin to hurry home . he pat he right cheek all the time , as if to make sure of he good fortune in have lose the wen . he be so happy that he find it impossible to walk quietly -- he run and dance the whole way home . he find he wife very anxious , wonder what have happen to make he so late . he soon tell she all that have pass since he leave home that afternoon . she be quite as happy as she husband when he show she that the ugly lump have disappear from he face , for in she youth she have pride herself on he good look , and it have be a daily grief to she to see the horrid growth . now next door to this good old couple there live a wicked and disagreeable old man . he , too , have for many year be trouble with the growth of a wen on he left cheek , and he , too , have try all manner of thing to get rid of it , but in vain . he hear at once , through the servant , of he neighbor 's good luck in lose the lump on he face , so he call that very evening and ask he friend to tell he everything that concern the loss of it . the good old man tell he disagreeable neighbor all that have happen to he . he describe the place where he would find the hollow tree in which to hide , and advise he to be on the spot in the late afternoon towards the time of sunset . the old neighbor start out the very next afternoon , and after hunting about for some time , come to the hollow tree just as he friend have describe . here he hide himself and wait for the twilight . just as he have be tell , the band of demon come at that hour and hold a feast with dance and song . when this have go on for some time the chief of the demon look around and say : `` it be now time for the old man to come as he promise we . why do not he come ? '' when the second old man hear these word he run out of he hide - place in the tree and , kneel down before the Oni , say : `` I have be wait for a long time for you to speak ! '' `` ah , you be the old man of yesterday , '' say the demon chief . `` thank you for come , you must dance for we soon . '' the old man now stand up and open he fan and begin to dance . but he have never learn to dance , and know nothing about the necessary gesture and different position . he think that anything would please the demon , so he just hop about , wave he arm and stamp he foot , imitate as well as he could any dancing he have ever see . the Oni be very dissatisfy at this exhibition , and say amongst themselves : `` how badly he dance to-day ! '' then to the old man the demon chief say : `` you performance to-day be quite different from the dance of yesterday . we do not wish to see any more of such dancing . we will give you back the pledge you leave with we . you must go away at once . '' with these word he take out from a fold of he dress the lump which he have take from the face of the old man who have dance so well the day before , and throw it at the right cheek of the old man who stand before he . the lump immediately attach itself to he cheek as firmly as if it have grow there always , and all attempt to pull it off be useless . the wicked old man , instead of lose the lump on he left cheek as he have hope , find to he dismay that he have but add another to he right cheek in he attempt to get rid of the first . he put up first one hand and then the other to each side of he face to make sure if he be not dream a horrible nightmare . no , sure enough there be now a great wen on the right side of he face as on the left . the demon have all disappear , and there be nothing for he to do but to return home . he be a pitiful sight , for he face , with the two large lump , one on each side , look just like a japanese gourd .