IB AND CHRISTINE . H. C. Andersen not far from the clear stream Gudenau , in North Jutland , in the forest which extend by its bank and far into the country , a great ridge of land rise and stretch along like a wall through the wood . by this ridge , westward , stand a farmhouse , surround by poor land ; the sandy soil be see through the spare rye and wheat-ears that grow upon it . some year have elapse since the time of which we speak . the people who live here cultivate the field , and moreover keep three sheep , a pig , and two ox ; in fact , they support themselves quite comfortably , for they have enough to live on if they take thing as they come . indeed , they could have manage to save enough to keep two horse ; but , like the other peasant of the neighborhood , they say , `` the horse eat itself up '' -- that be to say , it eat as much as it earn . Jeppe-Jaens cultivate he field in summer . in the winter he make wooden shoe , and then he have a assistant , a journeyman , who understand as well as he himself do how to make the wooden shoe strong , and light , and graceful . they carve shoe and spoon , and that bring in money . it would have be wrong the Jeppe-Jaenses to call they poor people . Little Ib , a boy seven year old , the only child of the family , would sit by , look at the workman , cut at a stick , and occasionally cut he finger . but one day Ib succeed so well with two piece of wood , that they really look like little wooden shoe ; and these he want to give to little Christine . and who be little Christine ? she be the boatman 's daughter , and be graceful and delicate as a gentleman 's child ; have she be differently dress , no one would have imagine that she come out of the hut on the neighbouring heath . there live she father , who be a widower , and support himself by carry firewood in he great boat out of the forest to the estate of Silkeborg , with its great eel-pond and eel-weir , and sometimes even to the distant little town of Randers . he have no one who could take care of little Christine , and therefore the child be almost always with he in he boat , or in the forest among the heath plant and barberry bush . sometimes , when he have to go as far as the town , he would bring little Christine , who be a year younger than Ib , to stay at the Jeppe-Jaenses . Ib and Christine agree very well in every particular : they divide they bread and berry when they be hungry , they dig in the ground together for treasure , and they run , and creep , and play about everywhere . and one day they venture together up the high ridge , and a long way into the forest ; once they find a few snipe ' egg there , and that be a great event for they . Ib have never be on the heath where Christine 's father live , nor have he ever be on the river . but even this be to happen ; for Christine 's father once invite he to go with they ; and on the evening before the excursion , he follow the boatman over the heath to the house of the latter . next morning early , the two child be sit high up on the pile of firewood in the boat , eat bread and whistleberry . Christine 's father and he assistant propel the boat with stave . they have the current with they , and swiftly they glide down the stream , through the lake it form in its course , and which sometimes seem shut in by reed and water plant , though there be always room for they to pass , and though the old tree bent quite forward over the water , and the old oak bent down they bare branch , as if they have turn up they sleeve and want to show they knotty naked arm . Old alder tree , which the stream have wash away from the bank , cling with they fibrous root to the bottom of the stream , and look like little wooded island . the water-lilies rock themselves on the river . it be a splendid excursion ; and at last they come to the great eel-weir , where the water rush through the flood-gates ; and Ib and Christine think this be beautiful to behold . in those day there be no manufactory there , nor be there any town ; only the old great farmyard , with its scanty field , with few servant and a few head of cattle , could be see there ; and the rush of the water through the weir and the cry of the wild duck be the only sign of life in Silkeborg . after the firewood have be unloaded , the father of Christine buy a whole bundle of eel and a slaughter sucking-pig , and all be put into a basket and place in the stern of the boat . then they go back again up the stream ; but the wind be favourable , and when the sail be hoist , it be as good as if two horse have be harness to the boat . when they have arrive at a point in the stream where the assistant-boatman dwelt , a little way from the bank , the boat be moor , and the two man land , after exhort the child to sit still . but the child do not do that ; or at least they obey only for a very short time . they must be peep into the basket in which the eel and the sucking-pig have be place , and they must need pull the sucking-pig out , and take it in they hand , and feel and touch it all over ; and as both want to hold it at the same time , it come to pass that they let it fall into the water , and the sucking-pig drift away with the stream -- and here be a terrible event ! Ib jump ashore , and run a little distance along the bank , and Christine spring after he . `` take I with you ! '' she cry . and in a few minute they be deep in the thicket , and could no longer see either the boat or the bank . they run on a little farther , and then Christine fall down on the ground and begin to cry ; but Ib pick she up . `` follow I ! '' he cry . `` Yonder lie the house . '' but the house be not yonder . they wander on and on , over the dry , rustling , last year 's leaf , and over fall branch that crackle beneath they foot . soon they hear a loud piercing scream . they stand still and listen , and presently the scream of a eagle sound through the wood . it be a ugly scream , and they be frighten at it ; but before they , in the thick wood , the most beautiful blueberry grow in wonderful profusion . they be so invite , that the child could not do otherwise than stop ; and they linger for some time , eat the blueberry till they have quite blue mouth and blue cheek . now again they hear the cry they have hear before . `` we shall get into trouble about the pig , '' say Christine . `` come , let we go to we house , '' say Ib ; `` it be here in the wood . '' -lrb-B- Illustration : IB AND CHRISTINE meet the GIPSY . aaaaa -rrb-B- aaa and they go forward . they presently come to a wood , but it do not lead they home ; and darkness come on , and they be afraid . the wonderful stillness that reign around be interrupt now and then by the shrill cry of the great horrid owl and of the bird that be strange to they . at last they both lose themselves in a thicket . Christine cry , and Ib cry too ; and after they have bemoan themselves for a time , they throw themselves down on the dry leaf , and go fast asleep . the sun be high in the heaven when the two child awake . they be cold ; but in the neighborhood of this resting-place , on the hill , the sun shone through the tree , and there they think they would warm themselves ; and from there Ib fancy they would be able to see he parent ' house . but they be far away from the house in question , in quite another part of the forest . they clamber to the top of the rise ground , and find themselves on the summit of a slope run down to the margin of a transparent lake . they could see fish in great number in the pure water illumine by the sun 's ray . this spectacle be quite a sudden surprise for they ; but close beside they grow a nut bush cover with the finest nut ; and now they pick the nut , and crack they , and eat the delicate young kernel , which have only just become perfect . but there be another surprise and another fright in store for they . out of the thicket step a tall old woman ; she face be quite brown , and she hair be deep black and shine . the whites of she eye gleam like a negro 's ; on she back she carry a bundle , and in she hand she bear a knotted stick . she be a gipsy . the child do not at once understand what she say . she bring three nut out of she pocket , and tell they that in these nut the most beautiful , the loveliest thing be hide ; for they be wishing-nuts . ib look at she , and she seem so friendly , that he pluck up courage and ask she if she would give he the nut ; and the woman give they to he , and gather some more for herself , a whole pocketful , from the nut bush . and Ib and Christine look at the wishing-nuts with great eye . `` be there a carriage with a pair of horse in this nut ? '' he ask . `` yes , there be a golden carriage with two horse , '' answer the woman . `` then give I the nut , '' say little Christine . and Ib give it to she , and the strange woman tie it in she pocket-handkerchief for she . `` be there in this nut a pretty little neckerchief , like the one Christine wear round she neck ? '' inquire Ib . `` there be ten neckerchief in it , '' answer the woman . `` there be beautiful dress in it , and stocking , and a hat with a veil . '' `` then I will have that one too , '' cry little Christine . and Ib give she the second nut also . the third be a little black thing . `` that one you can keep , '' say Christine ; `` and it be a pretty one too . '' `` what be in it ? '' inquire Ib . `` the best of all thing for you , '' reply the gipsy-woman . and Ib hold the nut very tight . the woman promise to lead the child into the right path , so that they might find they way home ; and now they go forward , certainly in quite a different direction from the path they should have follow . but that be no reason why we should suspect the gipsy-woman of want to steal the child . in the wild wood-path they meet the forest bailiff , who know Ib ; and by he help , Ib and Christine both arrive at home , where they friend have be very anxious about they . they be pardon and forgive , although they have indeed both deserve `` to get into trouble ; '' firstly , because they have let the sucking-pig fall into the water , and secondly , because they have run away . Christine be take back to she father on the heath , and Ib remain in the farmhouse on the margin of the wood by the great ridge . the first thing he do in the evening be to bring forth out of he pocket the little black nut , in which `` the best thing of all '' be say to be enclose . he place it carefully in the crack of the door , and then shut the door so as to break the nut ; but there be not much kernel in it . the nut look as if it be fill with tobacco or black rich earth ; it be what we call hollow , or worm-eaten . `` yes , that be exactly what I think , '' say Ib . `` how could the very best thing be contain in this little nut ? and Christine will get just as little out of she two nut , and will have neither fine clothes nor the golden carriage . '' and winter come on , and the new year begin ; indeed , several year go by . ib be at last to be confirm ; and for this reason he go during a whole winter to the clergyman , far away in the nearest village , to prepare . about this time the boatman one day visit Ib 's parent , and tell they that Christine be now go into service , and that she have be really fortunate in get a remarkably good place , and fall into worthy hand . `` only think , '' he say ; `` she be go to the rich innkeeper 's , in the inn at Herning , far towards the west , many mile from here . she be to assist the hostess in keep the house ; and afterwards , if she take to it well , and stay to be confirm there , the people be go to adopt she as they own daughter . '' and Ib and Christine take leave of one another . people call they `` the betrothed ; '' and at parting , the girl show Ib that she have still the two nut which he have give she long ago , during they wanderings in the forest ; and she tell he , moreover , that in a drawer she have carefully keep the little wooden shoe which he have carve as a present for she in they childish day . and thereupon they part . ib be confirm . but he remain in he mother 's house , for he have become a clever maker of wooden shoe , and in summer he look after the field . he do it all alone , for he mother keep no farm-servant , and he father have die long ago . only seldom he get news of Christine from some passing postillion or eel-fisher . but she be well off at the rich innkeeper 's ; and after she have be confirm , she write a letter to she father , and send a kind message to Ib and he mother ; and in the letter there be mention make of certain linen garment and a fine new gown , which Christine have receive as a present from she employer . this be certainly good news . next spring , there be a knock one day at the door of we Ibis old mother , and behold , the boatman and Christine step into the room . she have come on a visit to spend a day : a carriage have to come from the Herning Inn to the next village , and she have take the opportunity to see she friend once again . she look as handsome as a real lady , and she have a pretty gown on , which have be well sewn , and make expressly for she . there she stand , in grand array , and Ib be in he work clothes . he could not utter a word : he certainly seize she hand , and hold it fast in he own , and be heartily glad ; but he could not get he tongue to obey he . Christine be not embarrassed , however , for she go on talk and talk , and , moreover , kiss Ib on he mouth in the heartiest manner . `` do you know I again directly , Ib ? '' she ask ; but even afterwards , when they be leave quite by themselves , and he stand there still hold she hand in he , he could only say : `` you look quite like a real lady , and I be so uncouth . how often I have think of you , Christine , and of the old time ! '' and arm in arm they saunter up the great ridge , and look across the stream towards the heath , towards the great hill overgrow with bloom . it be perfectly silent ; but by the time they part it have grow quite clear to he that Christine must be he wife . have they not , even in they childhood , be call the betrothed pair ? to he they seem to be really engage to each other , though neither of they have speak a word on the subject . only for a few more hour could they remain together , for Christine be oblige to go back into the next village , from whence the carriage be to start early next morning for Herning . she father and Ib escort she as far as the village . it be a fair moonlight evening , and when they reach they destination , and Ib still hold Christine 's hand in he own , he could not make up he mind to let she go . he eye brighten , but still the word come halt over he lip . yet they come from the depths of he heart , when he say : `` if you have not become too grand , Christine , and if you can make up you mind to live with I in my mother 's house as my wife , we must become a wed pair some day ; but we can wait awhile yet . '' `` yes , let we wait for a time , Ib , '' she reply ; and he kiss she lip . `` I confide in you , Ib , '' say Christine ; `` and I think that I love you -- but I will sleep upon it . '' and with that they part . and on the way home Ib tell the boatman that he and Christine be as good as betrothed ; and the boatman declare he have always expect it would turn out so ; and he go home with Ib , and remain that night in the young man 's house ; but nothing further be say of the betrothal . a year pass by , in the course of which two letter be exchange between Ib and Christine . the signature be preface by the word , `` Faithful till death ! '' one day the boatman come into Ib , and bring he a greet from Christine . what he have further to say be bring out in somewhat hesitate fashion , but it be to the effect that Christine be almost more than prosperous , for she be a pretty girl , court and love . the son of the host have be home on a visit ; he be employ in the office of some great institution in Copenhagen ; and he be very much pleased with Christine , and she have take a fancy to he : he parent be ready to give they consent , but Christine be very anxious to retain Ib 's good opinion ; `` and so she have think of refuse this great piece of good fortune , '' say the boatman . at first Ib say not a word ; but he become as white as the wall , and slightly shake he head . then he say slowly : `` Christine must not refuse this advantageous offer . '' `` then do you write a few word to she , '' say the boatman . and Ib sit down to write ; but he could not manage it well : the word would not come as he wish they ; and first he alter , and then he tear up the page ; but the next morning a letter lay ready to be send to Christine , and it contain the following word : `` I have read the letter you have send to you father , and gather from it that you be prosper in all thing , and that there be a prospect of higher fortune for you . ask you heart , Christine , and ponder well the fate that await you , if you take I for you husband ; what I possess be but little . do not think of I , or my position , but think of you own welfare . you be bind to I by no promise , and if in you heart you have give I one , I release you from it . May all treasure of happiness be pour out upon you , Christine . Heaven will console I in its own good time . `` ever you sincere friend , `` ib '' and the letter be dispatch , and Christine duly receive it . in the course of that November she banns be publish in the church on the heath , and in Copenhagen , where she bridegroom live ; and to Copenhagen she proceed , under the protection of she future mother-in-law , because the bridegroom could not undertake the journey into Jutland on account of he various occupation . on the journey , Christine meet she father in a certain village ; and here the two take leave of one another . a few word be mention concern this fact , but Ib make no remark upon it : he mother say he have grow very silent of late ; indeed , he have become very pensive , and thus the three nut come into he mind which the gipsy-woman have give he long ago , and of which he have give two to Christine . yes , it seem right -- they be wishing-nuts , and in one of they lay a golden carriage with two horse , and in the other very elegant clothes ; all those luxury would now be Christine 's in the capital . she part have thus come true . and to he , Ib , the nut have offer only black earth . the gipsy-woman have say , this be `` the best of all for he . '' Yes , it be right , that also be come true . the black earth be the best for he . now he understand clearly what have be the woman 's meaning . in the black earth , in the dark grave , would be the best happiness for he . and once again year pass by , not very many , but they seem long year to Ib . the old innkeeper and he wife die , one after the other ; the whole of they property , many thousand of dollar , come to the son . Yes , now Christine could have the golden carriage , and plenty of fine clothes . during the two long year that follow no letter come from Christine ; and when she father at length receive one from she , it be not write in prosperity , by any means . Poor Christine ! neither she nor she husband have understand how to keep the money together ; and there seem to be no blessing with it , because they have not seek it . and again the weather bloom and fade . the winter have sweep for many year across the heath , and over the ridge beneath which Ib dwelt , sheltered from the rough wind . the spring sun shone bright , and Ib guide the plough across he field , when one day it glide over what appear to be a fire stone . something like a great black ship come out of the ground , and when Ib take it up it prove to be a piece of metal ; and the place from which the plough have cut the stone gleam brightly with ore. . it be a great golden armlet of ancient workmanship that he have find . he have disturb a `` Hun 's Grave , '' and discover the costly treasure bury in it . ib show what he have find to the clergyman , who explain its value to he , and then he betake himself to the local judge , who report the discovery to the keeper of the museum , and recommend Ib to deliver up the treasure in person . `` you have find in the earth the best thing you could find , '' say the judge . `` the best thing ! '' thought ib . `` the very best thing for I , and find in the earth ! well , if that be the best , the gipsy-woman be correct in what she prophesy to I . '' so Ib travel with the ferry-boat from Aarhus to Copenhagen . to he , who have but once or twice pass beyond the river that roll by he home , this seem like a voyage across the ocean . and he arrive in Copenhagen . the value of the gold he have find be pay over to he ; it be a large sum -- six hundred dollar . and Ib of the heath wander about in the great capital . on the day on which he have settle to go back with the captain , Ib lose he way in the street , and take quite a different direction from the one he intend to follow . he have wander into the suburb of Christianhaven , into a poor little street . not a human being be to be see . at last a very little girl come out of one of the wretch house . Ib inquire of the little one the way to the street which he want ; but she look shyly at he , and begin to cry bitterly . he ask she what ail she , but could not understand what she say in reply . but as they go along the street together , they pass beneath the light of a lamp ; and when the light fall on the girl 's face , he feel a strange and sharp emotion , for Christine stand bodily before he , just as he remember she from the day of he childhood . and he go with the little maiden into the wretch house , and ascend the narrow , crazy staircase , which lead to a little attic chamber in the roof . the air in this chamber be heavy and almost suffocate : no light be burning ; but there be heavy sighing and moan in one corner . Ib strike a light with the help of a match . it be the mother of the child who lay sigh on the miserable bed . `` can I be of any service to you ? '' ask Ib . `` this little girl have bring I up here , but I be a stranger in this city . be there no neighbor or friend whom I could call to you ? '' and he raise the sick woman 's head , and smooth she pillow . it be Christine of the heath ! for year she name have not be mention yonder , for the mention of she would have disturb Ib 's peace of mind , and rumor have tell nothing good concern she . the wealth which she husband have inherit from he parent have make he proud and arrogant . he have give up he certain appointment , have travel for half a year in foreign land , and on he return have incur debt , and yet live in a expensive fashion . he carriage have bent over more and more , so to speak , until at last it turn over completely . the many merry companion and table-friends he have entertain declare it serve he right , for he have keep house like a madman ; and one morning he corpse be find in the canal . the icy hand of death be already on Christine . she youngest child , only a few week old , expect in prosperity and bear in misery , be already in its grave , and it have come to this with Christine herself , that she lay , sick to death and forsake , in a miserable room , amid a poverty that she might well have bear in she childish day , but which now oppress she painfully , since she have be accustom to better thing . it be she eldest child , also a little Christine , that here suffer hunger and poverty with she , and whom Ib have now bring home . `` I be unhappy at the thought of die and leave the poor child here alone , '' she say . `` ah , what be to become of the poor thing ? '' and not a word more could she utter . and Ib bring out another match , and light up a piece of candle he find in the room , and the flame illumine the wretch dwelling . and Ib look at the little girl , and think how Christine have look when she be young ; and he feel that for she sake he would be fond of this child , which be as yet a stranger to he . the die woman gaze at he , and she eye open wider and wider -- do she recognize he ? he never know , for no further word pass over she lip . and it be in the forest by the river Gudenau , in the region of the heath . the air be thick and dark , and there be no blossom on the heath plant ; but the autumn tempest whirl the yellow leave from the wood into the stream , and out over the heath towards the hut of the boatman , in which stranger now dwell ; but beneath the ridge , safe beneath the protection of the high tree , stand the little farm , trimly whitewash and paint , and within it the turf blaze up cheerily in the chimney ; for within be sunlight , the beam sunlight of a child 's two eye ; and the tone of the spring bird sound in the word that come from the child 's rosy lip : she sit on Ib 's knee , and Ib be to she both father and mother , for she own parent be dead , and have vanish from she as a dream vanish alike from child and grow man . Ib sit in the pretty neat house , for he be a prosperous man , while the mother of the little girl rest in the churchyard at Copenhagen , where she have die in poverty . -lrb-B- Illustration : LITTLE CHRISTINE . aaaaa -rrb-B- aaa Ib have money , and be say to have provide for the future . he have win gold out of the black earth , and he have a Christine for he own , after all .