in the UTTERMOST part of the sea . H. C. Andersen Great ship have be send up towards the North Pole , to explore the most distant coast , and to try how far man might penetrate up yonder . for more than a year they have already be push they way among ice , and snow , and mist , and they crew have endure many hardship ; and now the winter be come , and the sun have entirely disappear from those region . for many many week there would now be a long night . all around , as far as the eye could reach , be a single field of ice ; the ship have be make fast to it , and the snow have pile itself up in great mass , and of these hut have be build in the form of beehive , some of they spacious as the old `` Hun 's Graves '' -- other only contain room enough to hold two or four man . but it be not dark , for the northern light flame red and blue , like a great continual firework ; and the snow glisten and gleam , so that the night here be one long , flaming , twilight hour . when the gleam be brightest , the native come in crowd , wonderful to behold in they rough , hairy , fur dress ; and they ride in sledge form of block of ice , and bring with they fur and peltry in great bundle , so that the snow house be furnish with warm carpet ; and , in turn , the fur also serve for coverlet when the sailor go to bed under they roof of snow , while outside it freeze in far different fashion than here with we in the winter . in we region it be still the late autumn-time ; and they think of that up yonder , and often picture to themselves the yellow leave on the tree of home . the clock show that it be evening , and time to go to sleep ; and in the hut two man already have stretch themselves out , seek rest . the younger of these have he best , dearest treasure , that he have bring from home -- the Bible , which he grandmother have give he on he departure . every night the sacred volume rest beneath he head , and he know from he childish year what be write in it . every day he read in the book , and often the holy word come into he mind where it be write , `` if I take the wing of the morning , and flee into the uttermost part of the sea , even there Thou art with I , and Thy right hand shall uphold I ; '' and , under the influence of the eternal word and of the true faith , he close he eye , and sleep come upon he , and dream -- the manifestation of Providence to the spirit . the soul live and be work while the body be enjoy its rest : he feel this life , and it seem to he as if dear old well-known melody be sound ; as if the mild breeze of summer be play around he ; and over he bed he behold a brightness , as if something be shine in through the crust of snow . he lift up he head , and behold , the bright gleam be no ripple down from the snowy roof , but come from the mighty pinion of a angel , into whose beam face he be gaze . as if from the cup of a lily the angel arise from among the leaf of the Bible , and stretch out he arm , the wall of the snow hut sink down around , as though they have be a light airy veil of mist ; the green meadow and hill of home , and its ruddy wood , lay spread around he in the quiet sunshine of a beauteous autumn day ; the nest of the stork be empty , but ripe fruit still cling to the wild apple tree , although the leaf , have fall ; the red hip gleam , and the magpie whistle in the green cage over the window of the peasant 's cottage that be he home ; the magpie whistle the tune that have be teach he , and the grandmother hang green food around the cage , as he , the grandson , have be accustom to do ; and the daughter of the blacksmith , very young and fair , stand by the well draw water , and nod to the granddame , and the old woman nod to she , and show she a letter that have come from a long way off . that very morning the letter have arrive from the cold region of the North -- there where the grandson be rest in the hand of God . and they smile and they weep ; and he , far away among the ice and snow , under the pinion of the angel , he , too , smile and weep with they in spirit , for he see they and hear they . and from the letter they read aloud the word of Holy Writ , that in the uttermost part of the sea he right hand would be a stay and a safety . and the sound of a beauteous hymn well up all around ; and the angel spread he wing like a veil over the sleep youth . the vision have flee , and it grow dark in the snow hut ; but the Bible rest beneath he head , and faith and hope dwelt in he soul . God be with he ; and he carry home about with he in he heart , even in the uttermost part of the sea .