136 Iron John BrothersS Grimm THERE be once on a time a king who have a great forest near he palace , full of all kind of wild animal . one day he send out a huntsman to shoot he a roe , but he do not come back . `` perhaps some accident have befall he , '' say the King , and the next day he send out two more huntsman who be to search for he , but they too stay away . then on the third day , he send for all he huntsman , and say , `` scour the whole forest through , and do not give up until ye have find all three . '' but of these also , none come home again , and of the pack of hound which they have take with they , none be see more . from that time forth , no one would any longer venture into the forest , and it lay there in deep stillness and solitude , and nothing be see of it , but sometimes a eagle or a hawk fly over it . this last for many year , when a strange huntsman announce himself to the King as seek a situation , and offer to go into the dangerous forest . the King , however , would not give he consent , and say , `` it be not safe in there ; I fear it would fare with thee no better than with the other , and thou wouldst never come out again . '' the huntsman reply , `` Lord , I will venture it at my own risk , of fear I know nothing . '' the huntsman therefore betake himself with he dog to the forest . it be not long before the dog fall in with some game on the way , and want to pursue it ; but hardly have the dog run two step when it stand before a deep pool , could go no farther , and a naked arm stretch itself out of the water , seize it , and draw it under , when the huntsman see that , he go back and fetch three man to come with bucket and bale out the water . when they could see to the bottom there lay a wild man whose body be brown like rusty iron , and whose hair hang over he face down to he knee . they bind he with cord , and lead he away to the castle . there be great astonishment over the wild man ; the King , however , have he put in a iron cage in he court-yard , and forbid the door to be open on pain of death , and the Queen herself be to take the key into she keep . and from this time forth every one could again go into the forest with safety . the King have a son of eight year , who be once play in the court-yard , and while he be play , he golden ball fall into the cage . the boy run thither and say , `` give I my ball out . '' `` not till thou hast open the door for I , '' answer the man . `` no , '' say the boy , `` I will not do that ; the King have forbid it , '' and run away . the next day he again go and ask for he ball ; the wild man say , `` Open my door , '' but the boy would not . on the third day the King have ride out hunting , and the boy go once more and say , `` I can not open the door even if I wish , for I have not the key . '' then the wild man say , `` it lie under thy mother 's pillow , thou canst get it there . '' the boy , who want to have he ball back , cast all think to the wind , and bring the key . the door open with difficulty , and the boy pinch he finger . when it be open the wild man step out , give he the golden ball , and hurry away . the boy have become afraid ; he call and cry after he , `` oh , wild man , do not go away , or I shall be beat ! '' the wild man turn back , take he up , set he on he shoulder , and go with hasty step into the forest . when the King come home , he observe the empty cage , and ask the Queen how that have happen ? she know nothing about it , and seek the key , but it be go . she call the boy , but no one answer . the King send out people to seek for he in the field , but they do not find he . then he could easily guess what have happen , and much grief reign in the royal court . when the wild man have once more reach the dark forest , he take the boy down from he shoulder , and say to he , `` Thou wilt never see thy father and mother again , but I will keep thee with I , for thou hast set I free , and I have compassion on thee . if thou dost all I bid thee , thou shalt fare well . of treasure and gold have I enough , and more than anyone in the world . '' he make a bed of moss for the boy on which he sleep , and the next morning the man take he to a well , and say , `` Behold , the gold well be as bright and clear as crystal , thou shalt sit beside it , and take care that nothing fall into it , or it will be polluted . I will come every evening to see if thou hast obey my order . '' the boy place himself by the margin of the well , and often see a golden fish or a golden snake show itself therein , and take care that nothing fall in . as he be thus sit , he finger hurt he so violently that he involuntarily put it in the water . he draw it quickly out again , but see that it be quite gilded , and whatsoever pain he take to wash the gold off again , all be to no purpose . in the evening Iron John come back , look at the boy , and say , `` what have happen to the well ? '' `` nothing , nothing , '' he answer , and hold he finger behind he back , that the man might not see it . but he say , `` Thou hast dip thy finger into the water , this time it may pass , but take care thou dost not again let anything go in . '' by daybreak the boy be already sit by the well and watch it . he finger hurt he again and he pass it over he head , and then unhappily a hair fall down into the well . he take it quickly out , but it be already quite gilded . Iron John come , and already know what have happen . `` Thou hast let a hair fall into the well , '' say he . `` I will allow thee to watch by it once more , but if this happen for the third time then the well be polluted , and thou canst no longer remain with I . '' on the third day , the boy sit by the well , and do not stir he finger , however much it hurt he . but the time be long to he , and he look at the reflection of he face on the surface of the water . and as he still bent down more and more while he be do so , and try to look straight into the eye , he long hair fall down from he shoulder into the water . he raise himself up quickly , but the whole of the hair of he head be already golden and shone like the sun . you may imagine how terrify the poor boy be ! he take he pocket-handkerchief and tie it round he head , in order that the man might not see it . when he come he already know everything , and say , `` take the handkerchief off . '' then the golden hair stream forth , and let the boy excuse himself as he might , it be of no use . `` Thou hast not stand the trial , and canst stay here no longer . go forth into the world , there thou wilt learn what poverty be . but as thou hast not a bad heart , and as I mean well by thee , there be one thing I will grant thee ; if thou fallest into any difficulty , come to the forest and cry , ` Iron John , ' and then I will come and help thee . my power be great , greater than thou thinkest , and I have gold and silver in abundance . '' then the King 's son leave the forest , and walk by beaten and unbeaten path ever onwards until at length he reach a great city . there he look for work , but could find none , and he have learn nothing by which he could help himself . at length he go to the palace , and ask if they would take he in . the people about court do not at all know what use they could make of he , but they like he , and tell he to stay . at length the cook take he into he service , and say he might carry wood and water , and rake the cinder together . once when it so happen that no one else be at hand , the cook order he to carry the food to the royal table , but as he do not like to let he golden hair be see , he keep he little cap on . such a thing as that have never yet come under the King 's notice , and he say , `` when thou comest to the royal table thou must take thy hat off . '' he answer , `` ah , Lord , I can not ; I have a bad sore place on my head . '' then the King have the cook call before he and scold he , and ask how he could take such a boy as that into he service ; and that he be to turn he off at once . the cook , however , have pity on he , and exchange he for the gardener 's boy . and now the boy have to plant and water the garden , hoe and dig , and bear the wind and bad weather . once in summer when he be work alone in the garden , the day be so warm he take he little cap off that the air might cool he . as the sun shone on he hair it glitter and flash so that the ray fall into the bed-room of the King 's daughter , and up she spring to see what that could be . then she see the boy , and cry to he , `` Boy , bring I a wreath of flower . '' he put he cap on with all haste , and gather wild field-flowers and bind they together . when he be ascend the stair with they , the gardener meet he , and say , `` how canst thou take the King 's daughter a garland of such common flower ? go quickly , and get another , and seek out the prettiest and rarest . '' `` oh , no , '' reply the boy , `` the wild one have more scent , and will please she better . '' when he get into the room , the King 's daughter say , `` take thy cap off , it be not seemly to keep it on in my presence . '' he again say , `` I may not , I have a sore head . '' she , however , catch at he cap and pull it off , and then he golden hair roll down on he shoulder , and it be splendid to behold . he want to run out , but she hold he by the arm , and give he a handful of ducat . with these he depart , but he care nothing for the gold piece . he take they to the gardener , and say , `` I present they to thy child , they can play with they . '' the following day the King 's daughter again call to he that he be to bring she a wreath of field-flowers , and when he go in with it , she instantly snatch at he cap , and want to take it away from he , but he hold it fast with both hand . she again give he a handful of ducat , but he would not keep they , and give they to the gardener for plaything for he child . on the third day thing go just the same ; she could not get he cap away from he , and he would not have she money . not long afterwards , the country be overrun by war . the King gather together he people , and do not know whether or not he could offer any opposition to the enemy , who be superior in strength and have a mighty army . then say the gardener 's boy , `` I be grow up , and will go to the war also , only give I a horse . '' the other laugh , and say , `` seek one for thyself when we be go , we will leave one behind we in the stable for thee . '' when they have go forth , he go into the stable , and get the horse out ; it be lame of one foot , and limp hobblety jig , hobblety jig ; nevertheless he mount it , and ride away to the dark forest . when he come to the outskirts , he call `` Iron John , '' three time so loudly that it echo through the tree . Thereupon the wild man appear immediately , and say , `` what dost thou desire ? '' `` I want a strong steed , for I be go to the war . '' `` that thou shalt have , and still more than thou askest for . '' then the wild man go back into the forest , and it be not long before a stable-boy come out of it , who lead a horse that snort with its nostril , and could hardly be restrain , and behind they follow a great troop of soldier entirely equip in iron , and they sword flash in the sun . the youth make over he three-legged horse to the stable-boy , mount the other , and ride at the head of the soldier . when he get near the battle-field a great part of the King 's man have already fall , and little be want to make the rest give way . then the youth gallop thither with he iron soldier , break like a hurricane over the enemy , and beat down all who oppose he . they begin to fly , but the youth pursue , and never stop , until there be not a single man leave . instead , however , of return to the King , he conduct he troop by bye-ways back to the forest , and call forth Iron John . `` what dost thou desire ? '' ask the wild man . `` take back thy horse and thy troops , and give I my three-legged horse again . '' all that he ask be do , and soon he be ride on he three-legged horse . when the King return to he palace , he daughter go to meet he , and wish he joy of he victory . `` I be not the one who carry away the victory , '' say he , `` but a stranger knight who come to my assistance with he soldier . '' the daughter want to hear who the strange knight be , but the King do not know , and say , `` he follow the enemy , and I do not see he again . '' she inquire of the gardener where he boy be , but he smile , and say , `` he have just come home on he three-legged horse , and the other have be mock he , and cry , `` here come we hobblety jig back again ! '' they ask , too , `` under what hedge hast thou be lie sleep all the time ? '' he , however , say , `` I do the best of all , and it would have go badly without I . '' and then he be still more ridiculed . '' the King say to he daughter , `` I will proclaim a great feast that shall last for three day , and thou shalt throw a golden apple . perhaps the unknown will come to it . '' when the feast be announce , the youth go out to the forest , and call Iron John . `` what dost thou desire ? '' ask he . `` that I may catch the King 's daughter 's golden apple . '' `` it be as safe as if thou hadst it already , '' say Iron John . `` Thou shalt likewise have a suit of red armor for the occasion , and ride on a spirited chestnut-horse . '' when the day come , the youth gallop to the spot , take he place amongst the knight , and be recognize by no one . the King 's daughter come forward , and throw a golden apple to the knight , but none of they catch it but he , only as soon as he have it he gallop away . on the second day Iron John equip he as a white knight , and give he a white horse . again he be the only one who catch the apple , and he do not linger a instant , but gallop off with it . the King grow angry , and say , `` that be not allow ; he must appear before I and tell he name . '' he give the order that if the knight who catch the apple , should go away again they should pursue he , and if he would not come back willingly , they be to cut he down and stab he . on the third day , he receive from Iron John a suit of black armor and a black horse , and again he catch the apple . but when he be ride off with it , the King 's attendant pursue he , and one of they get so near he that he wound the youth 's leg with the point of he sword . the youth nevertheless escape from they , but he horse leap so violently that the helmet fall from the youth 's head , and they could see that he have golden hair . they ride back and announce this to the King . the following day the King 's daughter ask the gardener about he boy . `` he be at work in the garden ; the queer creature have be at the festival too , and only come home yesterday evening ; he have likewise show my child three golden apple which he have win . '' the King have he summon into he presence , and he come and again have he little cap on he head . but the King 's daughter go up to he and take it off , and then he golden hair fall down over he shoulder , and he be so handsome that all be amaze . `` Art thou the knight who come every day to the festival , always in different color , and who catch the three golden apple ? '' ask the King . `` yes , '' answer he , `` and here the apple be , '' and he take they out of he pocket , and return they to the King . `` if you desire further proof , you may see the wound which you people give I when they follow I . but I be likewise the knight who help you to you victory over you enemy . '' `` if thou canst perform such deed as that , thou art no gardener 's boy ; tell I , who be thy father ? '' `` my father be a mighty King , and gold have I in plenty as great as I require . '' `` I well see , '' say the King , `` that I owe thanks to thee ; can I do anything to please thee ? '' `` yes , '' answer he , `` that indeed you can . give I you daughter to wife . '' the maiden laugh , and say , `` he do not stand much on ceremony , but I have already see by he golden hair that he be no gardener 's boy , '' and then she go and kiss he . he father and mother come to the wedding , and be in great delight , for they have give up all hope of ever see they dear son again . and as they be sit at the marriage-feast , the music suddenly stop , the door open , and a stately king come in with a great retinue . he go up to the youth , embrace he and say , `` I be Iron John , and be by enchantment a wild man , but thou hast set I free ; all the treasure which I possess , shall be thy property . ''