JASPER JAY tell SOME NEWS Arthur Scott Bailey it be quite late in the fall , and the weather have grow very cold . Mrs. Coon and she family have not leave they home for several day ; but on this day she think it would be pleasant to go out in the sunshine and get a breath of fresh air and a bite to eat . Fatty be the only one of she child that be not asleep ; and he complain of be very hungry . so Mrs. Coon decide to take he with she . the hunting be not very good . there be no bird ' egg at all to be find in the tree . the river and the brook and the creek be all freeze over , so Fatty and he mother could not catch any fish . and as for corn -- Farmer Green have long ago gather the last ear of it . Fatty wish that it be summertime . but it only make he hungrier than ever , to think of all the good thing to eat that summer bring . he be feel very unhappy when he mother say to he sharply -- `` Run up this tree ! hurry , now ! do not ask any question . '' now , Fatty do not always mind he mother as quickly as he might have . but this time he see that she have stop and be sniff the air as if there be something about it she do not like . that be enough for Fatty . he scramble up the nearest tree . for he know that he mother have discover danger of some sort . Mrs. Coon follow close behind Fatty . and they have . no sooner hidden in the branch than Fatty see what it be that he mother have smell . it be Johnnie Green ! he pass right underneath the tree where they be perch . and as Mrs. Coon peep down at he she shudder and shiver and shake so hard that Fatty could not help notice it . `` what be the matter ? '' he ask , as soon as Johnnie Green be out of sight . `` he cap ! '' Mrs. Coon exclaim . `` he be wear a coon-skin cap ! '' now do you wonder that she be upset ? `` do not ever go near Farmer Green 's house , '' she warn Fatty . `` you do not want to be make into a cap , or a pair of glove , or a coat , or anything like that , do you ? '' `` no , indeed , Mother ! '' Fatty be quite sure that such a adventure would not please he at all . and he tell himself right then and there that he would never go anywhere near Farmer Green 's house . we shall see how well Fatty remember . that very afternoon Fatty Coon hear some very pleasant news . it be Jasper Jay who tell he . Jasper Jay be a very noisy blue jay who live in the neighborhood . he do not go south with most of the other bird when the cold weather come . he like the winter and he be forever tear about the wood , squall and scold at everybody . he be a very noisy fellow . well ! when Fatty and he mother have reach home after they hunt , Fatty stay out of door . he climb to the top of a tall pine tree nearby and stretch himself along a limb , to enjoy the sunshine , which feel very good upon he broad back . it be there that Jasper Jay find he and tell he the pleasant news . and Fatty be very glad to hear the news , because he be still hungry . this be what Jasper Jay tell Fatty : he tell he that Farmer Green have as many as forty fat turkey , which roost every night in a spread oak in Farmer Green 's front yard . `` if I like turkey I would certainly go down there some night and get one , '' say Jasper Jay .