JOCONDE La Fontain in Lombardy 's fair land , in day of yore , once dwell a prince , of youthful charm , a store ; each FAIR , with anxious look , he favor seek , and ev ` ry heart within he net be catch . quite proud of beauteous form and smart address , in which the world be lead to acquiesce , he cry one day , while ALL attention pay , I 'll bet a million , Nature never make beneath the sun , another man like I , Whose symmetry with mine can well agree . if such exist , and here will come , I swear I 'll show he ev ` ry lib ` ral princely care . a noble Roman , who the challenge hear , this answer give the king he soul preferr would -- Great prince , if you would see a handsome man , to have my brother here should be you plan ; a frame more perfect nature never give ; but this to prove , you courtly dame I crave ; May judge the fact , when I be convinc would they 'll find : like you , the youth will please all womankind ; and since so many sweet at once may cloy , ` twere well to have a partner in you joy . the king , surpri 'd , express a wish to view this brother , form 'd by line so very true ; we 'll see , say he , if here he charm divine attract the heart of ev ` ry nymph , like mine ; and should success attend we be ` rous lord , to you , my friend , full credit we 'll accord . away the Roman fly , Joconde to get , -lrb-B- so nam would be he in whom these feature meet ; -rrb-B- ` midst wood and lawn , retir would from city strife , and lately wed to a beauteous wife ; if bless 'd , I know not ; but with such a fair , on he must rest the folly to despair . the Roman courtier come , he business tell the brilliant offer from the monarch bold ; he mission have success , but still the youth distraction feel , which ` gan to shake he truth ; a pow ` rful monarch 's favor there he view 'd ; a partner here , with melt tear bedew would ; and while he waver on the painful choice , she thus address would she spouse with plaintive voice : CAN you , Joconde , so truly cruel prove , to quit my fervent love in court to move ? the promise of king be airy dream , and scarcely last beyond the day 's extreme by watchful , anxious care alone retain 'd , and lose , through mere caprice , as soon as gain 'd . if weary of my charm , alas ! you feel , still think , my love , what joy these wood conceal ; here dwell around tranquillity and ease ; the stream ' soft murmur , and the balmy breeze , invite to sleep ; these vale where breathe the dove , all , all , my dear joconde , renew we love ; you laugh ! -- ah ! cruel , go , expose thy charm , Grim death will quickly spare I these alarm ! JOCONDE be reply we record ne'er relate , nor what he do , nor how he leave he mate ; and since contemp ` rary decline the task ; ` Twere folly , such detail of I to ask . we be tell , howe'er , when ready to depart , with flow tear she press have he to she heart ; and on he arm a brilliant bracelet plac 'd , with hair around she picture nicely trac 'd ; this guard in full remembrance of my love , she cry ; -- then clasp she hand to pow ` r above . to see such dire distress , and poignant grief , Might lead to think , soon death would bring relief ; but I , who know full well the female mind , at best oft doubt affliction of the kind . JOCONDE set out at length ; but that same morn ; as on he mov 'd , he soul with anguish tear , he find the picture he have quite forget , then turn would he steed , and back begin to trot . while muse what excuse to make he mate , at home he soon arriv 'd , and op have the gate ; Alighted unobserv 'd , run up the stair ; and ent ` ring to the lady unaware , he find this darling rib , so full of charm ; Intwin 'd within a valet 's brawny arm ! ` midst first emotion of the husband 's ire ; to stab they while asleep he feel desire ; Howe'er , he nothing do ; the courteous wight ; in this dilemma , clearly act right ; the less of such misfortune say be best ; ` twere well the soul of feeling to divest ; they life , through pity , or prudential care ; with much reluctance , he be lead to spare ; Asleep he leave the pair , for if awake , in honor , he a diff ` rent step would take . -- have any smart gallant supply my place , say he , I might put up with this disgrace ; but naught console the thought of such a beast ; Dan Cupid wanton , or be blind at least ; a bet , or some such whim , induc have the god , to give he sanction to amours so odd . THIS perfidy Joconde so much dismay would ; he spirit droop 'd , he lily ` gan to fade ; no more he look would the charmer he have be ; and when the court 's gay dame he face have see ; they cry , be this the beauty , we be tell , would captivate each heart , or young or old ? why , he be the jaundice ; ev ` ry view display the mien of one , -- just fast forty day ! with secret pleasure , this , AstolphusS learn would ; the Roman , for he brother , risk discern 'd , whose secret grief be carefully conceal 'd , -lrb-B- and these Joconde could never wish reveal 'd ; -rrb-B- yet , spite of gloomy look and hollow eye , he graceful feature pierc would the wan disguise , which fail would to please , alone through want of life , Destroy 'd by think on a guilty wife . the god of love , in pity to we swain , at last revok would BLACK CARE be corrode reign ; for , doubtless , in he view he oft be cross 'd , while such a lover to the world be lose . the hero of we tale , at length , we find be well reward : love again prove kind ; for , muse as he walk would alone one day , and pass have a gall ` ry , -lrb-B- hold a secret way , -rrb-B- a voice in plaintive accent catch he ear , and from the neighb ` ring closet come , 'twa clear : My dear Curtade , my only hope below , in vain I love ; -- you colder , colder grow ; while round no fair can boast so fine a face , and number wish they might supply thy place , Whilst thou with some gay page prefer ` st a bet , or game of dice with some low , vulgar set , to meet I alone ; and when just now to thee I send , with rage thou knit ` st thy brow , and Dorimene , with ev ` ry curse abus 'd then play again , since better that amus 'd , and leave I here , as if not worth a thought , or thou didst scorn what I so fondly seek . astonishment , at once , we roman seiz would ; but who be the fair that thus she bosom ea 'd ? or , who be the gay Adonis , form would to bless ? you would try a day , and not the secret guess , the queen 's the belle : -- and , doubtless you will stare , the king 's own dwarf the idol of she care ! the Roman see a crevice in the wood , through which he take a peep from where he stand ; to dorimene we lover leave the key , which she have dropt when lately forc 'd to flee , and this Joconde pick have up , a lucky hit , since he could use it when he best think fit . it seem , say he , I be not alone in name , and since a prince so handsome be the same , although a valet have supply my place , yet see , the queen prefer a dwarf 's embrace . THIS think consol would so well , -- he youthful ray return , and e ` en excel he former day ; and those who lately ridicul would he charm , now anxious seem would to revel in he arm 'twa who could have he , -- even prude grow kind ; -- by many belle Astolphus be resign 'd ; Though still the king retain would enough , 'twa see ; -- but now let we resume the dwarf and queen . OUR Roman , have satisfy he eye , at length withdraw , confound by surprise . who follow court , must oft with care conceal , and scarcely know what sight and ear reveal . YET , by Joconde the king be lov would so well , what now he would see he greatly wish would to tell ; but , since to prince full respect be due , and what concern they , howsoever true , if think displeasing , should not be dispo would in term direct , but obviously dispo 'd , to catch the mind , Joconde at ease detail would , from day of yore to those he now bewail 'd , the name of emp ` ror and of king , whose brow , by wily wife , be crown would with leafless bough ! and who , without repine , view have they lot , nor bad make worse , but think thing best forget . E ` en I , who now you majesty address , continue he , be sorry to confess , the very day I leave my native earth , to wait upon a prince of royal birth , be forced t ` acknowledge cuckoldom among the god who rule the matrimonial throng , and sacrifice thereto with ache heart cornuted head dire torment oft impart : the tale he then detail would , that rai would he spleen ; and what within the closet he have see ; the king reply , I will not be so rude , to question what so clearly you have view would ; yet , since ` twere better full belief to gain , a glimpse of such a fact I should obtain , Pray bring I thither ; instantly we wight ; Astolphus lead , where both he ear and sight Full proof receiv 'd , which strike the prince with awe ; who stand amaz 'd at what he hear and see . but soon reflection 's all-convincing pow ' r induce the king vexation to devour ; true courtier-like , who dire misfortune brave , feel sprout horn , yet smile at fool and knave : we wife , say he , a pretty trick have play would , and shamefully the marriage bed betray would ; let we the compliment return , my friend , and round the country we amours extend ; but , in we plan the better to succeed , we name we 'll change ; no servant we shall need ; -- for you relation I desire to pass , so you 'll true freedom use ; then with a lass we more at ease shall feel , more pleasure gain ; than if attend by my usual train . joconde with joy the king 's proposal hear ; on which the latter with he friend conferr would ; Said he , ` twere surely right to have a book , in which to place the name of those we hook , the whole arrang would accord to they rank , and I 'll engage no page remain a blank , but ere we leave the range of we design , E ` en scrup ` lous dame shall to we wish incline , we person handsome , with engaging air , and sprightly , brilliant wit no trifling share , -- ` twere strange , possess such engaging charm , they should not tumble freely in we arm . the baggage ready , and the paper-book , we smart gallant the road together take , but ` twould be vain to number they amours ; with beauty , Cupid favor they by score ; Blessed , if only see by either swain , and doubly bless 'd who could attention gain : nor wife of alderman , nor wife of mayor , of justice , nor of governor be there , who do not anxiously desire she name Might straight be enter in the book of fame ! HeartsS , which before be think as cold as ice , now warm 'd at once and melt in a trice . SOME infidel , I fancy , in my ear would whisper-probabilities , I fear , be rather want to support the fact ; however perfectly gallant may act , to gain a heart require full many a day if more be requisite I can not say ; ` Tis not my plan to dupe or young or old , but such to I , howe'er the tale be tell , and Ariosto never truth forsake ; yet , if at ev ` ry step a writer take , he be closely question would as to time and place , he ne'er can end he work with easy grace . to those , from whom just credence I receive , they tale I promise fully to believe . AT length , when we advent ` rer round have play 'd , and danc would with ev ` ry widow , wife , and maid , the full blow lily and the tender rise , Astolphus say , though clearly I suppose , we can as many heart securely link , as e ` er we like , yet better now , I think , to stop a while in some delightful spot , and that before satiety we have get ; for true it be , with love as with we meat ; if we , variety of dish eat , the doctor tell we inj ` ry will ensue , and too much rake none can well pursue . let we some please fair-one then engage , to serve we both : -- enough she 'll prove I 'll wage . JOCONDE at once reply , with all my heart , and I a lady know who 'll take the part ; she be beautiful ; possess store of wit ; and be the wife of one above a cit . with such to meddle would be indiscreet , reply the king , more charm we often meet , beneath a chambermaid or laundress ' dress , than any rich coquette can well possess . besides , with those , less form be oft requir 'd , while dame of quality must be admir 'd ; they whim comply with , though suspicion rise ; and ev ` ry hour produce fresh surprise , but this sweet charmer of inferior birth a treasure prove ; a source of bliss on earth . no trouble she to carry here nor there ; no ball she visit , and require no care ; the conquest easy , we may talk or not ; the only difficulty we have get , be how to find one , we may faithful view ; so let we choose a girl , to love quite new . since these , reply the YOUTH , you thought appear , what think you of we landlord 's daughter here ? that she be a perfect virgin I have no doubt , nor can we find a chaster round about ; she very doll more innocent will not prove , than this sweet nymph design would with we to move . the scheme we prince 's approbation meet ; the very girl , say he , I wish would to get ; this night be we attack ; and if she heart surrender when we wish we impart , but one perplexity will then remain ; ` TisS who she virgin favor shall obtain ? the honor 's all a whim , and I , as king , at once assuredly should claim this thing : the rest ` tis very easy to arrange ; as matter suit we presently can change . if ceremony ` twere , Joconde reply , all cavil then we quickly could decide ; Precedence would no doubt with you remain : but this be quite another case ` ti plain ; and equity demand that we agree , by lot to settle which the man shall be . the noble youth no argument would spare , and each contend for the spoiler 's care ; Howe'er Joconde obtain the lucky hit , and first embrac would this fancied dainty bit . the girl who be the noble rival 's aim , that ev ` ning to the room for something come ; we hero give she instantly a chair , and lavish praise on she face and hair ; a diamond ring soon sparkle in she eye ; its please pow ` r at sight obtain would the prize . the bargain make , she , in the dead of night , when silence reign 'd and all be void of light , with careful step they anxious wish obey 'd , and ` tween they both , she presently be lay ; 'Twas Paradise they think , where all be nice , and we young spark believ would he break the ice . the folly I forgive he ; -- ` ti in vain on this to reason -- idle to complain ; the WISE have oft be dup would it be confest , and Solomon it seem among the rest . but gay Joconde feel nothing of the kind , a secret pleasure glow have within he mind ; he think Astolphus wond ` rous bliss have miss , and that himself alone the fair have kiss would ; a clod howe'er , who liv 'd within the place , have , prior to the Roman , she embrace . the soft amour extend through the night , the girl be plea would , and all proceed right ; the foll ` wing night , the next , 'twa still the same ; Young Clod at length she coldness ` gan to blame ; and as he feel suspicious of the act , he watch would she step and verify the fact : a quarrel instantly between they rise ; Howe'er the fair , he anger to compose , and favor not to lose , on honor vow 'd , that when the spark be go , and time allow 'd , she would oblige he craving , fierce desire ; -- to which the village lad reply with ire : -- Pray what care I for any tavern guest , of either sex ; to you I now protest , if I be not indulg would this very night , I 'll publish you amours in mere despite . HOW can we manage it , reply the belle , I be quite distressed -- indeed the truth to tell , I have promi have they this night to come again , and if I fail , no doubt can then remain , but I shall lose the ring , they pledg would reward , which would , you know for I , be very hard . to you I wish the ring , reply young Clod , but do they sleep in bed , or only nod ? tell I , pray ; oh , say she , they sleep most sound ; but then between they plac would shall I be find , and while the one amidst Love 's frolick sport , the other quiet lie , or Morpheus court . on hearing this the rustick lad propose , to visit she when other ' eye be close . oh ! never risk it , quickly she reply ; ` Twere folly to attempt it by they side . he answer 'd , never fear , but only leave the door ajar , and I they 'll not perceive . the door she leave exactly as he say ; the spark arriv 'd , and then approach have the bed , -lrb-B- 'Twas near the foot , -rrb-B- then ` tween the sheet he slide , but God know how he lay , or what he do . Astolphus and Joconde ne'er smell a rat , nor ever dream of what they girl be at , at length when each have turn 'd and op have he eye , continual movement fill have he with surprise . the monarch softly say : -- why how be this ? my friend have eat something , for in bliss , he revel on , and truly much I fear , he health will show , it may be buy too dear . this very sentiment Joconde bethought ; but clod a breathing moment have catch , Resum have he fun , and that so oft would seek : he gratify he wish for a week ; then watch carefully , he find once more ; we noble hero have begin to snore , on which he slyly take himself away , the road he come , and ere 'twa break of day ; the girl soon follow 'd , since she justly fear 'd , still more fatigue : -- so off she quickly steer 'd , AT length when both the noble be awake ; Astolphus say , my friend you rest should take , ` twere better till to-morrow keep in bed , since sleep , with such fatigue , of course have flee : you talk at random , cry the roman youth ; more rest I fancy you require in truth ; you have lead a pretty life throughout the night ; I ? say the king ; why I be weary quite , so long I wait ; you no respite give , but wholly seem would we little nymph t ' enslave ; at length to try if I from rage could keep , I turn would my back once more , and go to sleep . if you have willingly the belle resign 'd , I be , my friend , to take a turn inclin would ; that have suffice for I , since I , like you , perpetual motion never can pursue . your raillery , the Roman youth reply , quite disconcerted , pray now lay aside , and talk of something else ; you have fully show , that I be you vassal , and since you be grow so fond that you to keep the girl desire , E ` en wholly to yourself , why I 'll retire ; do with she what you please , and we shall see , how long this furor will with you agree . it may , reply the king , for ever last , if ev ` ry night like this , I be doom would to fast . SIRE , say Joconde , no longer let we thus , in term of playful raillery discuss ; since such you pleasure , send I from you view ; on this the youthful monarch angry grow , and many word between the friend arise ; the presence of the nymph Astolphus choose ; to she they say , between we judge , sweet fair , and every thing be state then with care . the girl with blush cheek before they kneel 'd , and the mysterious tale at once reveal 'd . we hero laugh would ; the treach ` ry vile excus 'd ; and give the ring , which much delight diffus would ; together with a handsome sum of gold , which soon a husband in she train enroll 'd , who , for a maid , the pretty fair-one take ; and then we hero wand ` ring prank forsook , with laurel cover 'd , which in future time , will make they famous through the western clime ; more glorious since , they only cost , we find , those sweet ATTENTIONS pleasing to the MIND . so many conquest proud of have make , and over full the book of -- those who would play 'd ; Said gay Astolphus we will now , my friend , return the shortest road and poach end ; if false we mate , yet we 'll console ourselves , that many other have inconstant elf . perhaps , in thing a change will be one day , and only tender flame LOVE 's torch display ; but now it seem some evil star preside , and Hymen 's flock the devil surely ride . besides , vile fiend the universe pervade , whose constant aim be mortal to degrade , and cheat we to we nose if they can , -lrb-B- Hell 's imp in human shape , disgrace to man ! -rrb-B- perhaps these wretch have bewitch would we wife , and make we fancy error in they life . then let we like good citizen , we day in future pass amidst domestick way ; we absence may indeed restore they heart , for jealousy oft virtuous truth impart . in this Astolphus certainly believ would ; the friend return 'd , and kindly be receiv would ; a little scolding first assail have the ear ; but blissful kiss banish would ev ` ry fear . to ball and banquet ALL themselves resign ; of dwarf or valet nothing more we find ; each with he wife contentedly remain : -- ` Tis thus alone true happiness be gain .