JOHNNIE GREEN lose he pet Arthur Scott Bailey now , Farmer Green and he hire man have not chop long before they stop to breathe . they have not chop long -- but oh ! what great , yawn hole they have make in the big chestnut ! from the limb where he cling Fatty Coon look down . the tree no longer shake . and Fatty feel better at once . you see , he think that the man would go away , just as Johnnie have go away the night before . but they have no such idea at all . `` which way be you go to fall she ? '' the hire man ask . he say HER , mean the TREE , of course . `` that way ! '' say Farmer Green , point toward the wood . `` we 'll have to drop she that way , or she 'll fall right across the road , and of course that would never do . '' `` but will she clear the tree on the edge of the wood ? '' the hire man appear somewhat doubtful . `` oh , to be sure -- to be sure ! '' answer Farmer Green . and with that they set to work again . but this time they both chop on the same side of the tree -- the side toward the wood . now , if Fatty Coon be frighten before , you will believe that he be still more frightened when the big chestnut tree begin to sag . yes ! it begin to lean toward the wood . slowly , slowly it tip . and Fatty be scared half out of he mind . he climb to the very top of the tree , because he want to get just as far away from those man as he could . and there he wait . there be nothing else he could do . yes ! he wait until that awful moment should come when the tree would go crash down upon the ground . what be go to happen to he then ? Fatty wonder . and while he be wonder there sound all at once a great snap and splitting . and Fatty feel the tree fall , fall . he could hear Johnnie Green shouting . and he shut he eye and hold fast to he branch . then come the crash . when Fatty Coon open he eye he expect to see Johnnie Green all ready to seize he . but to he great surprise he be still far above the ground . you see , Farmer Green have be mistake . either the big chestnut tree be taller than he have guess , or the wood be nearer than he have think . for instead of drop upon the ground , Fatty 's tree have fall right against another tree on the edge of the wood . and there it lay , half-tipped over , with its branch catch fast in the branch of that other tree . it be no wonder that Johnnie Green shout . and he shout still more loudly when he see Fatty scramble out of the big chestnut and into the other tree , and out of that tree and into another , and then out of that tree . Fatty be go straight into the wood . it be no wonder that Johnnie Green shout . for he have lose he pet coon . he have lose he before he ever have he . and he be sadly disappoint . but Fatty Coon be not disappointed , for he have not want to be a pet at all . and he be very glad -- you may be sure -- to get safely home once more .