JOHNNIE GREEN be DISAPPOINTED Arthur Scott Bailey it make Fatty Coon feel sad , just to think that there be that field full of corn , and that he could never eat all of it . but Fatty make up he mind that he would do the best he could . he would visit the cornfield every night and feast on those sweet , tender kernel . the very next night Fatty set out toward Farmer Green 's . it be hardly dark . but Fatty could not wait any longer . he could not even wait for he mother and he sister and he brother . he hurry away alone . and when he come in sight of the cornfield he feel better . he have be the least bit afraid that the corn might be go . he think that maybe Farmer Green have pick it , or that some of the forest people have eat it all . but there it be -- a forest of corn , wave and rustling in the moonlight as the breeze touch it . Fatty feel very happy as he slip through the rail-fence . I would not dare say how many ear of corn Fatty eat that night . and he would have eat more , too , if it have not be for just one thing . a dog bark . and that spoil Fatty 's fun . for the dog be altogether too near for Fatty to feel safe . he even drop the ear of corn he be gnawing and hurry toward the wood . it be lucky for Fatty that he start when he do . for that dog be close behind he in no time . there be only one thing to do : Fatty know that he must climb a tree at once . so he make for the nearest tree in sight -- a big , spread oak , which stand all alone just beyond the fence . and as Fatty crouch on a limb he feel safe enough , though the dog bark and whine , and leap against the tree , and make a great fuss . Fatty look down at the dog and scold a little . he be not afraid . but it make he cross to be drive out of the cornfield . and he wish the dog would go away . but the dog -- it be Farmer Green 's spot -- the dog have no idea of leave . he stay right there and bark so loudly that it be not long before Farmer Green and he hire man come in sight . and with they be Johnnie Green and a little , young dog that have just be give to he . when Farmer Green see Fatty he seem disappointed . `` he be too young to bother with , '' he say . `` he skin 's not worth much . we 'll go ` long and see what we can find . '' but Johnnie Green stay behind . he want that young coon . and he intend to have he , too . leave the young dog to watch Fatty Coon , Johnnie go back to the farmhouse . after a while he appear again with a axe over he shoulder . and when he begin to chop away at the big oak , Fatty Coon feel very uneasy . Whenever Johnnie drive he axe into the tree , both the tree and Fatty shiver together . and Fatty begin to wish he have stay away from the cornfield . but not for long , because Johnnie Green soon give up the idea of chop down the big oak . the wood be so hard to cut , and the tree be so big , that Johnnie have not chop long before he see that it would take he all night to cut through it . he look up longingly at Fatty Coon . and Johnnie start to climb the tree himself . but the higher he climb , the higher Fatty climb . and Johnnie know that he could never catch that plump young coon in that way . at last Johnnie Green start off , call he dog after he . and then Fatty Coon come down . but he do not go back to the cornfield . he decide that he have have adventure enough for one night . but Fatty have learn something -- at least he think he have . for he make up he mind that once he climb a tree , no man could reach he . tree could not be CHOPPED DOWN ! that be what Fatty believe . perhaps you will know , later , whether Fatty ever find out that he be mistake .