69 Jorinda and Joringel BrothersS Grimm there be once a old castle in the midst of a large and thick forest , and in it a old woman who be a witch dwelt all alone . in the day-time she change herself into a cat or a screech-owl , but in the evening she take she proper shape again as a human being . she could lure wild beast and bird to she , and then she kill and boiled and roasted they . if any one come within one hundred pace of the castle he be oblige to stand still , and could not stir from the place until she bid he be free . but whenever a innocent maiden come within this circle , she change she into a bird , and shut she up in a wicker-work cage , and carry the cage into a room in the castle . she have about seven thousand cage of rare bird in the castle . now , there be once a maiden who be call Jorinda , who be fairer than all other girl . she and a handsome youth name Joringel have promise to marry each other . they be still in the day of betrothal , and they greatest happiness be be together . one day in order that they might be able to talk together in quiet they go for a walk in the forest . `` take care , '' say Joringel , `` that you do not go too near the castle . '' it be a beautiful evening ; the sun shone brightly between the trunk of the tree into the dark green of the forest , and the turtle-doves sing mournfully upon the young bough of the birch-trees . Jorinda weep now and then : she sit down in the sunshine and be sorrowful . Joringel be sorrowful too ; they be as sad as if they be about to die . then they look around they , and be quite at a loss , for they do not know by which way they should go home . the sun be still half above the mountain and half set . Joringel look through the bush , and see the old wall of the castle close at hand . he be horror-stricken and fill with deadly fear . Jorinda be sing -- `` my little bird , with the necklace red , sing sorrow , sorrow , sorrow , he sing that the dive must soon be dead , sing sorrow , sor -- jug , jug , jug . '' Joringel look for Jorinda . she be change into a nightingale , and sing , `` jug , jug , jug . '' a screech-owl with glowing eye fly three time round about she , and three time cry , `` to-whoo , to-whoo , to-whoo ! '' Joringel could not move : he stand there like a stone , and could neither weep nor speak , nor move hand or foot . the sun have now set . the owl fly into the thicket , and directly afterwards there come out of it a crooked old woman , yellow and lean , with large red eye and a hooked nose , the point of which reach to she chin . she mutter to herself , catch the nightingale , and take it away in she hand . Joringel could neither speak nor move from the spot ; the nightingale be go . at last the woman come back , and say in a hollow voice , `` Greet thee , Zachiel . if the moon shine on the cage , Zachiel , let he loose at once . '' then Joringel be free . he fall on he knee before the woman and beg that she would give he back he Jorinda , but she say that he should never have she again , and go away . he call , he weep , he lament , but all in vain , `` ah , what be to become of I ? '' Joringel go away , and at last come to a strange village ; there he keep sheep for a long time . he often walk round and round the castle , but not too near to it . at last he dream one night that he find a blood-red flower , in the middle of which be a beautiful large pearl ; that he pick the flower and go with it to the castle , and that everything he touch with the flower be free from enchantment ; he also dream that by means of it he recover he Jorinda . in the morning , when he awake , he begin to seek over hill and dale if he could find such a flower . he seek until the ninth day , and then , early in the morning , he find the blood-red flower . in the middle of it there be a large dew-drop , as big as the finest pearl . Day and night he journey with this flower to the castle . when he be within a hundred pace of it he be not hold fast , but walk on to the door . Joringel be full of joy ; he touch the door with the flower , and it spring open . he walk in through the courtyard , and listen for the sound of the bird . at last he hear it . he go on and find the room from whence it come , and there the witch be feed the bird in the seven thousand cage . when she see Joringel she be angry , very angry , and scold and spit poison and gall at he , but she could not come within two pace of he . he do not take any notice of she , but go and look at the cage with the bird ; but there be many hundred nightingale , how be he to find he Jorinda again ? just then he see the old woman quietly take away a cage with a bird in it , and go towards the door . swiftly he spring towards she , touch the cage with the flower , and also the old woman . she could now no longer bewitch any one ; and Jorinda be stand there , clasp he round the neck , and she be as beautiful as ever !