king candaule and the doctor of LAWS La Fontain in life oft ill from self-imprudence spring ; as proof , Candaules ' story we will bring ; in folly 's scene the king be truly great : he vassal , Gyges , have from he a bait , the like in gallantry be rarely know , and want of prudence never more be show . my friend , say he , you frequently have see the beauteous face and feature of the queen ; but these be naught , believe I , to the rest , which solely can be view when quite undressed . some day I 'll let you gratify you eye ; without she knowledge I 'll means devise ; but on condition : -- you 'll remember well what you behold , to no one you will tell , in ev ` ry step most cautiously proceed , and not you mind with silly wish feed ; no sort of pleasure surely I could take , to see vain passion you she lover make . you must propose , this charming form to view , as if mere marble , though to nature true ; and I be convinced you 'll readily declare , Beyond nor art can reach , nor think prepare ; just now I leave she in the bath at ease : a judge you be , and shall the moment seize ; come , witness my felicity supreme ; you know she beauty be my constant theme . away they go , and Gyges much admire ; still more than that : in truth he breast be fire ; for when she move astonishment be great , and ev ` ry grace upon she seem to wait . emotion to suppress howe'er he try , since he have promise what he feel to hide ; to hold he tongue he wish , but that might raise suspicion of design and mystick way . Exaggeration be the better part , and from the subject he would never start , but fully praise each beauty in detail , without appear any thing to veil . god ! Gyges cry , how truly , king , you be bless ; the skin how fair -- how charming all the rest ! this be ` rous conversation by the queen be never hear , or she would enrage have be ; in ancient day of ignorance , we find , the sex , to show resentment , much incline ; in diff ` rent light at present this appear , and fulsome praise ne'er offend they ear . OUR arch observer struggle with he sigh those feeling much increase , so fair the prize : the prince , in doubt , conduct he away ; but in he heart a hundred arrow lay ; each magick charm direct pointed dart ; to flee be useless : love such pain impart , that nothing can at time obstruct its course ; so quick the flight : so truly great the force . while near the king , much caution Gyges show ; but soon the belle perceive he bosom glow ; she learn the cause : -- she spouse the tale disclose , and laugh and jeer , as he the fact expose : a silly blockhead ! not to know a queen could raillery not bear on such a scene . but have it please she wish , still ` twere right -lrb-B- such honour 's dictate -rrb-B- to discover spite ; and this she truly do , while in she mind , to be revenge she fully be incline . for once , good reader , I should wish thee wife ; or otherwise , thou never can ` st in life , conceive the length a woman oft will go , whose breast be fill with wrath and secret woe . a mortal be allow these charm to view , which other ' eye could never dare pursue . such treasure be for god , or rather king the privilege of both be beauteous thing . these thought induce the queen revenge to seek ; rage move she breast , and shame possess she cheek . E ` en Cupid , we be tell , assistance give ; what from he aim effectually can save ? Fair in person be Gyges to behold ; ExcusesS for she easy ` twere to mould ; to show she charm , what baseness could excel ? and on th ' exposer all she hatred fall . besides , he be a husband , which be worse with these each sin receive a double curse . what more shall I detail ? -- the fact be plain : detest be the king : -- beloved the swain ; all be accomplish , and the monarch place among the hero who with horn be grace ; no doubt a dignity not much desire , though in repute , and easily acquire . such merit have the prince 's folly get , ` in petto ' , Vulcan 's brother be he lot ; the distance thence be little to the HAT : the honor much the same of this or that . so far 'twa pass well , but , in the intrigue ; the cruel Parcae now appear to league ; and soon the lover , on possession bent , to black Cocytus ' shore the monarch send ; too much of certain potion force to drink , he quickly view the dreary , horrid brink ; while please the object Gyges ' eye beheld ; and in the palace presently he dwell , for , whether love or rage the widow fire , she throne and hand she give , as be require . T ' EXTEND this tale be never my design ; Though know full well , I do not now repine ; the case so thoroughly my purpose serve . ne'er from the narrative the object swerve ; and scarcely can I fancy , better light the doctor will afford to what I write . the scene that follow I from Rome have draw ; not Rome of old , ere manners have they dawn , when custom be unpleasant and severe the female , silly , and gallant in fear ; but Rome of modern day , delightful spot ! where better taste have into fashion get , and pleasure solely occupy the mind to rapture ev ` ry bosom seem resign . a tempting journey truly it appear , for youth from twenty on to thirty year . not long ago , then , in the city dwell , a master , who in teaching law excel ; in other matter he , howe'er , be think a man that jollity and laughter seek . he criticise whatever pass around , and oft , at other ' cost , diversion find . it happen that we learn doctor have , among he many pupil -lrb-B- good and bad -rrb-B- a frenchman , less design to study law , than , in amours , perhaps , to gain applause . one day , observe he with clouded mien , my friend , say he , you surely have the spleen , and , out of college , nothing seem to do ; no law book read : -- some object I would pursue ; a handsome frenchman should he hour improve ; seek soft intrigue , or as a lover move ; Talents you have , and gay coquette be here not one , thank heav ` n , but number oft appear . the student answer , I be new at Rome , and , save the belle who sell they beauteous bloom , I can not perceive , gallant much business find , each house , like monastery , be design , with double door , and bolt , and matron sour , and husband argus-eyed , who would you devour . where can I go to follow up you plan , and hope , in spot like these , a flame to fan ? ` Twere not less difficult to reach the moon , and with my tooth I would bite it just as soon . HA ! HA ! reply the doctor with delight , the honor which you do we be not slight ; I pity man quite fresh and raw like you ; we town , I see , you have hardly travel through , you fancy then , such wily snare be set , ` ti difficult intrigue in Rome to get . I would have you know , we have creature who devise , to horn they husband under Argus ' eye . ` tis very common ; only try around , and soon you 'll find , that sly amours abound . within the neighb ` ring church go take you place , and , to the dame who pass in search of grace , Present you finger dipt in water bless : -- a sign for those who wish to be caress . in case the suppliant 's air some lady please , who know she trade , and how to act at ease , she 'll send a message , something to desire : you 'll soon be find , wherever you retire , though lodge so secretly , that God alone , till then , you place of residence have know . a age female will on you attend , who , use to this , will full assistance lend , arrange a interview with wily art ; no trouble take , you 'll have a easy part ; no trouble do I say ? why , that be too much ; some thing I would except , they pow ` r be such ; and proper ` tis , my friend , that I should hint , Attentions you at Rome should well imprint , and be discrete ; in France you favor boast : of ev ` ry moment here you make the most ; the RomansS to the greatest length proceed . so best , the spark reply , I like the deed ; and , though no Gascon , I may boldly say ; Superior prowess always I display . perhaps 'twa otherwise , for ev ` ry wight ; in this , to play the Gascon , think it right . to all the doctor 's word we youth adhere , and presently within a church appear , where daily come the choicest belle around , and love and grace in they train be find , or , if ` tis wish in modern phrase to speak , attention num ` rous angel there would seek . beneath they veil be beauteous sparkling eye ; the holy-water scarcely would suffice . in lucky spot the spark he station take , and give to each that pass a plaintive look ; to some he bow ; to other seem to pray , and holy water offer on they way . one angel ` mong the rest the boon receive , with easy please air , that much relieve ; on which the student to himself express , a fond belief , with she he might be bless . when home , a age female to he come , and soon a meeting place he hear she name . to count particulars howe'er be vain they prank be many , and they folly plain ; the belle be handsome ; ev ` ry bliss be seek , and all they moment most delightful thought . he , to the doctor , ev ` ry matter tell Discretion in a frenchman would be cold ; ` ti out of nature , and bespeak the cit ; smell strong of shop , and would not fashion fit . the learn teacher satisfaction show , that such success from he instruction flow , laugh heartily at husband , silly wight , who have not wit to guard connubial rights , and from they lamb the wily wolf to keep : a shepherd will o ` erlook a hundred sheep , while foolish man 's unable to protect , E ` en one where most he would wish to be correct . Howe'er , this care he think be somewhat hard , but not a thing impossible to guard ; and if he have not get a hundred eye , thank heav ` n , he wife , though cunning to devise , he could defy : -- she thought so well he know , that these intrigue she never would pursue . you will , ne'er believe , good reader , without shame , the doctor 's wife be she we annals name ; and what be still worse , so many thing he ask , she look , air , form , and secret charm unmasked , that ev ` ry answer fully seem to say , 'twa clearly she , who thus have go astray . one circumstance the lawyer lead to doubt : some talent have the student point out , which she have never to she husband show , and this relief administer alone . Thought he , those manners not to she belong , but all the rest be indication strong , and prove the case ; yet she at home be dull ; while this appear to be a prattle trull , and please in she conversation too ; in other matter ` tis my wife we view , form , face , complexion , feature , eye , and hair , the whole combine pronounce she the fair . AT length , when to himself the sage have say ` Tis she ; and then , ` tis not ; -- he sens lead to make he in the first opinion rest , you well may guess what rage be in he breast . a second meeting you have fix ? cry he ; Yes , say the Frenchman , that be make with glee ; we find the first so please to we mind , that to another both be well incline , and thoroughly resolve more fun to seek . that be right , reply the doctor , have you freak ; the lady howsoe'er I now could name . the scholar answer , that to I be the same ; I care not what she be call , nor who she be : ` Tis quite enough that we so well agree . by this time I be convinced she loving spouse . possess what a anchorite might rouse ; and if a failure any where be meet , at such a place to-morrow one may get , what I shall hope , exactly at the hour , to find resigned and fully in my pow ` r : in bed I shall be instantly receive , and from anxiety be soon relieve . the place of meeting be a room below , most nicely furnished , rich , but void of show . at first I through a passage dark be lead , where Sol 's bright ray be ne'er allow to spread ; but soon , by my conductress , I be bring , ` Mid LOVE 's delight , where all with charm be frought . on this you may suppose the doctor 's pain ; but presently he think a point to gain , and take the student 's place by wily art , where , act in disguise the lover 's part , he rib he might entangle in a net , and vassalage bestow she would ne'er forget . we learn man be clearly in the wrong ; ` twere better far to sleep and hold he tongue ; unless , with God 's assistance , he could raise a remedy that merit full praise . whenever wife have get a candidate , to be admit to the Cuckold 's state , if thence he get scot free ` ti luck indeed ; but once receive , and ornament decree , a blot the more will surely nothing add , to one already in the garment clothe . the doctor otherwise however think ; yet still he reason no advantage bring ; indeed he fancy , if he could forestall the youth who now he might he master call ; the trick would to he wisdom credit do , and show , superior wiles he could pursue . away the husband hasten to the place ; in full belief , that , hide well he face , and favor by the darkness of the spot , the silence mark , and myst ` ry of the plot , he , undiscovered , safely might be lead , where such delicious fruit be ready spread . misfortune , howsoe'er , would so direct the age female nothing to neglect , have with she get a lantern to conduct , the light from which at will she could obstruct , and , far more cunning than we learn sage , perceive at once with whom she have t ` engage ; but , mark no surprise , she bid he wait , while she , he come , to she dame should state . Said she , unless I tell she first you be here , I dare not let you in she room appear . besides , you have not get the right attire ; Undressed , in truth , be what she would desire . my lady , you must know , be go to bed : -- then , thrust in a dress room he head , he there behold the necessary fare , of night-cap , slipper , shirt , and comb for hair , with perfume too , in Rome the nicest know , and fit for highest cardinal to own . he clothes the learn doctor lay aside ; the age female come he step to guide ; through passage she lead he by the hand , where all be dark , and many turning plan ; at once bewilder , and deprive of sight , the lawyer totter much for want of light . at length she ope 'd a door , and push the sage , where most unpleasantly he must engage , though doubtless ev ` ry way he proper place : -- the school where he be use the LAWS to trace ! o'ercome with shame , confusion , and surprise , he nearly faint , vain ` twere to disguise . the circumstance run throughout the town ; each student then be wait in he gown ; Enough , no doubt , he fortune to destroy ; the laugh go round , and all be jest and joy . what , be he mad ? say they , or would he seek some lass , and with she wish to have a freak ? still worse arrive : -- he beauteous spouse complain ; a trial follow , and distraction reign ; she relative support well the cause , and represent , that the MAN of LAWS , Occasioned jar and matrimonial strife ; that he be mad , and she , a prudent wife , the marriage be annul , and she withdraw : Retirement now the lady would pursue , in Vavoureuse a prelate bless the dame , and , at Saint Croissant , she a nun become .