11 Little Brother and Little Sister BrothersS Grimm Little brother take he little sister by the hand and say , `` since we mother die we have have no happiness ; we step-mother beat we every day , and if we come near she she kick we away with she foot . we meal be the hard crust of bread that be leave over ; and the little dog under the table be better off , for she often throw it a nice bit . May Heaven pity we . if we mother only know ! come , we will go forth together into the wide world . '' they walk the whole day over meadow , field , and stony place ; and when it rain the little sister say , `` Heaven and we heart be weep together . '' in the evening they come to a large forest , and they be so weary with sorrow and hunger and the long walk , that they lay down in a hollow tree and fall asleep . the next day when they awake , the sun be already high in the sky , and shine down hot into the tree . then the brother say , `` sister , I be thirsty ; if I know of a little brook I would go and just take a drink ; I think I hear one running . '' the brother get up and take the little sister by the hand , and they set off to find the brook . but the wicked step-mother be a witch , and have see how the two child have go away , and have creep after they privily , as witch do creep , and have bewitch all the brook in the forest . now when they find a little brook leap brightly over the stone , the brother be go to drink out of it , but the sister hear how it say as it run , `` who drink of I will be a tiger ; who drink of I will be a tiger . '' then the sister cry , `` Pray , dear brother , do not drink , or you will become a wild beast , and tear I to piece . '' the brother do not drink , although he be so thirsty , but say , `` I will wait for the next spring . '' when they come to the next brook the sister hear this also say , `` who drink of I will be a wolf ; who drink of I will be a wolf . '' then the sister cry out , `` Pray , dear brother , do not drink , or you will become a wolf , and devour I . '' the brother do not drink , and say , `` I will wait until we come to the next spring , but then I must drink , say what you like ; for my thirst be too great . '' and when they come to the third brook the sister hear how it say as it run , `` who drink of I will be a roebuck ; who drink of I will be a roebuck . '' the sister say , `` oh , I pray you , dear brother , do not drink , or you will become a roebuck , and run away from I . '' but the brother have kneel down at once by the brook , and have bent down and drunk some of the water , and as soon as the first drop touch he lip he lay there a young roebuck . and now the sister weep over she poor bewitch brother , and the little roe weep also , and sit sorrowfully near to she . but at last the girl say , `` be quiet , dear little roe , I will never , never leave you . '' then she untie she golden garter and put it round the roebuck 's neck , and she pluck rush and weave they into a soft cord . with this she tie the little beast and lead it on , and she walk deeper and deeper into the forest . and when they have go a very long way they come at last to a little house , and the girl look in ; and as it be empty , she think , `` we can stay here and live . '' then she seek for leaf and moss to make a soft bed for the roe ; and every morning she go out and gather root and berry and nut for herself , and bring tender grass for the roe , who eat out of she hand , and be content and play round about she . in the evening , when the sister be tire , and have say she prayer , she lay she head upon the roebuck 's back : that be she pillow , and she sleep softly on it . and if only the brother have have he human form it would have be a delightful life . for some time they be alone like this in the wilderness . but it happen that the King of the country hold a great hunt in the forest . then the blast of the horn , the bark of dog , and the merry shout of the huntsman ring through the tree , and the roebuck hear all , and be only too anxious to be there . `` oh , '' say he , to he sister , `` let I be off to the hunt , I can not bear it any longer ; '' and he beg so much that at last she agree . `` but , '' say she to he , `` come back to I in the evening ; I must shut my door for fear of the rough huntsman , so knock and say , ` my little sister , let I in ! ' that I may know you ; and if you do not say that , I shall not open the door . '' then the young roebuck spring away ; so happy be he and so merry in the open air . the King and the huntsman see the pretty creature , and start after he , but they could not catch he , and when they think that they surely have he , away he spring through the bush and could not be see . when it be dark he run to the cottage , knock , and say , `` my little sister , let I in . '' then the door be open for he , and he jump in , and rest himself the whole night through upon he soft bed . the next day the hunt go on afresh , and when the roebuck again hear the bugle-horn , and the ho ! ho ! of the huntsman , he have no peace , but say , `` sister , let I out , I must be off . '' he sister open the door for he , and say , `` but you must be here again in the evening and say you pass-word . '' when the King and he huntsman again see the young roebuck with the golden collar , they all chase he , but he be too quick and nimble for they . this go on for the whole day , but at last by the evening the huntsman have surround he , and one of they wound he a little in the foot , so that he limp and run slowly . then a hunter creep after he to the cottage and hear how he say , `` my little sister , let I in , '' and see that the door be open for he , and be shut again at once . the huntsman take notice of it all , and go to the King and tell he what he have see and hear . then the King say , `` to-morrow we will hunt once more . '' the little sister , however , be dreadfully frighten when she see that she fawn be hurt . she wash the blood off he , lay herb on the wound , and say , `` go to you bed , dear roe , that you may get well again . '' but the wound be so slight that the roebuck , next morning , do not feel it any more . and when he again hear the sport outside , he say , `` I can not bear it , I must be there ; they shall not find it so easy to catch I . '' the sister cry , and say , `` this time they will kill you , and here be I alone in the forest and forsake by all the world . I will not let you out . '' `` then you will have I die of grief , '' answer the roe ; `` when I hear the bugle-horns I feel as if I must jump out of my skin . '' then the sister could not do otherwise , but open the door for he with a heavy heart , and the roebuck , full of health and joy , bound into the forest . when the King see he , he say to he huntsman , `` now chase he all day long till night-fall , but take care that no one do he any harm . '' as soon as the sun have set , the King say to the huntsman , `` now come and show I the cottage in the wood ; '' and when he be at the door , he knock and call out , `` dear little sister , let I in . '' then the door open , and the King walk in , and there stand a maiden more lovely than any he have ever see . the maiden be frighten when she see , not she little roe , but a man come in who wear a golden crown upon he head . but the King look kindly at she , stretch out he hand , and say , `` will you go with I to my palace and be my dear wife ? '' `` yes , indeed , '' answer the maiden , `` but the little roe must go with I , I can not leave he . '' the King say , `` it shall stay with you as long as you live , and shall want nothing . '' just then he come run in , and the sister again tie he with the cord of rush , take it in she own hand , and go away with the King from the cottage . the King take the lovely maiden upon he horse and carry she to he palace , where the wedding be hold with great pomp . she be now the Queen , and they live for a long time happily together ; the roebuck be tend and cherish , and run about in the palace-garden . but the wicked step-mother , because of whom the child have go out into the world , think all the time that the sister have be tear to piece by the wild beast in the wood , and that the brother have be shoot for a roebuck by the huntsman . now when she hear that they be so happy , and so well off , envy and hatred rise in she heart and leave she no peace , and she think of nothing but how she could bring they again to misfortune . she own daughter , who be ugly as night , and have only one eye , grumble at she and say , `` a Queen ! that ought to have be my luck . '' `` only be quiet , '' answer the old woman , and comfort she by say , `` when the time come I shall be ready . '' as time go on , the Queen have a pretty little boy , and it happen that the King be out hunting ; so the old witch take the form of the chamber-maid , go into the room where the Queen lay , and say to she , `` come , the bath be ready ; it will do you good , and give you fresh strength ; make haste before it get cold . '' the daughter also be close by ; so they carry the weakly Queen into the bath-room , and put she into the bath ; then they shut the door and run away . but in the bath-room they have make a fire of such deadly heat that the beautiful young Queen be soon suffocate . when this be do the old woman take she daughter , put a nightcap on she head , and lay she in bed in place of the Queen . she give she too the shape and the look of the Queen , only she could not make good the lost eye . but in order that the King might not see it , she be to lie on the side on which she have no eye . in the evening when he come home and hear that he have a son he be heartily glad , and be go to the bed of he dear wife to see how she be . but the old woman quickly call out , `` for you life leave the curtain close ; the Queen ought not to see the light yet , and must have rest . '' the King go away , and do not find out that a false Queen be lie in the bed . but at midnight , when all sleep , the nurse , who be sit in the nursery by the cradle , and who be the only person awake , see the door open and the true Queen walk in . she take the child out of the cradle , lay it on she arm , and suckle it . then she shake up its pillow , lay the child down again , and cover it with the little quilt . and she do not forget the roebuck , but go into the corner where it lay , and stroke its back . then she go quite silently out of the door again . the next morning the nurse ask the guard whether anyone have come into the palace during the night , but they answer , `` no , we have see no one . '' she come thus many night and never speak a word : the nurse always see she , but she do not dare to tell anyone about it . when some time have pass in this manner , the Queen begin to speak in the night , and say -- `` how fare my child , how fare my roe ? twice shall I come , then never more . '' the nurse do not answer , but when the Queen have go again , go to the King and tell he all . the King say , `` ah , heaven ! what be this ? to-morrow night I will watch by the child . '' in the evening he go into the nursery , and at midnight the Queen again appear and say -- `` how fare my child , how fare my roe ? once will I come , then never more . '' and she nurse the child as she be wont to do before she disappear . the King dare not speak to she , but on the next night he watch again . then she say -- `` how fare my child , how fare my roe ? this time I come , then never more . '' then the King could not restrain himself ; he spring towards she , and say , `` you can be none other than my dear wife . '' she answer , `` yes , I be you dear wife , '' and at the same moment she receive life again , and by God 's grace become fresh , rosy , and full of health . then she tell the King the evil deed which the wicked witch and she daughter have be guilty of towards she . the King order both to be lead before the judge , and judgment be deliver against they . the daughter be take into the forest where she be tear to piece by wild beast , but the witch be cast into the fire and miserably burnt . and as soon as she be burn the roebuck change he shape , and receive he human form again , so the sister and brother live happily together all they life .