53 little snow-white Brothers Grimm once upon a time in the middle of winter , when the flake of snow be fall like feather from the sky , a queen sit at a window sewing , and the frame of the window be make of black ebony . and whilst she be sew and look out of the window at the snow , she prick she finger with the needle , and three drop of blood fall upon the snow . and the red look pretty upon the white snow , and she think to herself , `` would that I have a child as white as snow , as red as blood , and as black as the wood of the window-frame . '' soon after that she have a little daughter , who be as white as snow , and as red as blood , and she hair be as black as ebony ; and she be therefore call Little Snow-white . and when the child be bear , the Queen die . after a year have pass the King take to himself another wife . she be a beautiful woman , but proud and haughty , and she could not bear that anyone else should surpass she in beauty . she have a wonderful looking-glass , and when she stand in front of it and look at herself in it , and say -- `` looking-glass , looking-glass , on the wall , who in this land be the fairest of all ? '' the looking-glass answer -- `` Thou , O Queen , art the fairest of all ! '' then she be satisfy , for she know that the looking-glass speak the truth . but snow-white be grow up , and grow more and more beautiful ; and when she be seven year old she be as beautiful as the day , and more beautiful than the Queen herself . and once when the Queen ask she looking-glass -- `` looking-glass , looking-glass , on the wall , who in this land be the fairest of all ? '' it answer -- `` Thou art fairer than all who be here , Lady Queen . '' but more beautiful still be snow-white , as I ween . '' then the Queen be shock , and turn yellow and green with envy . from that hour , whenever she look at snow-white , she heart heave in she breast , she hate the girl so much . and envy and pride grow higher and higher in she heart like a weed , so that she have no peace day or night . she call a huntsman , and say , `` take the child away into the forest ; I will no longer have she in my sight . kill she , and bring I back she heart as a token . '' the huntsman obey , and take she away ; but when he have draw he knife , and be about to pierce snow-white 's innocent heart , she begin to weep , and say , `` ah dear huntsman , leave I my life ! I will run away into the wild forest , and never come home again . '' and as she be so beautiful the huntsman have pity on she and say , `` Run away , then , you poor child . '' `` the wild beast will soon have devour you , '' think he , and yet it seem as if a stone have be roll from he heart since it be no longer needful for he to kill she . and as a young boar just then come run by he stab it , and cut out its heart and take it to the Queen as proof that the child be dead . the cook have to salt this , and the wicked Queen eat it , and think she have eat the heart of snow-white . but now the poor child be all alone in the great forest , and so terrify that she look at every leaf of every tree , and do not know what to do . then she begin to run , and run over sharp stone and through thorn , and the wild beast run past she , but do she no harm . she run as long as she foot would go until it be almost evening ; then she see a little cottage and go into it to rest herself . everything in the cottage be small , but neater and cleaner than can be tell . there be a table on which be a white cover , and seven little plate , and on each plate a little spoon ; moreover , there be seven little knife and fork , and seven little mug . against the wall stand seven little bed side by side , and cover with snow-white counterpane . Little Snow-white be so hungry and thirsty that she eat some vegetable and bread from each plate and drink a drop of wine out of each mug , for she do not wish to take all from one only . then , as she be so tired , she lay herself down on one of the little bed , but none of they suit she ; one be too long , another too short , but at last she find that the seventh one be right , and so she remain in it , say a prayer and go to sleep . when it be quite dark the owner of the cottage come back ; they be seven dwarf who dig and delve in the mountain for ore. . they light they seven candle , and as it be now light within the cottage they see that someone have be there , for everything be not in the same order in which they have leave it . the first say , `` who have be sit on my chair ? '' the second , `` who have be eat off my plate ? '' the third , `` who have be take some of my bread ? '' the fourth , `` who have be eat my vegetable ? '' the fifth , `` who have be use my fork ? '' the sixth , `` who have be cut with my knife ? '' the seventh , `` who have be drink out of my mug ? '' then the first look round and see that there be a little hole on he bed , and he say , `` who have be get into my bed ? '' the other come up and each call out , `` somebody have be lie in my bed too . '' but the seventh when he look at he bed see little snow-white , who be lie asleep therein . and he call the other , who come run up , and they cry out with astonishment , and bring they seven little candle and let the light fall on little snow-white . `` oh , heaven ! oh , heaven ! '' cry they , `` what a lovely child ! '' and they be so glad that they do not wake she up , but let she sleep on in the bed . and the seventh dwarf sleep with he companion , one hour with each , and so get through the night . when it be morning little snow-white awake , and be frighten when she see the seven dwarf . but they be friendly and ask she what she name be . `` my name be snow-white , '' she answer . `` how have you come to we house ? '' say the dwarf . then she tell they that she step-mother have wish to have she kill , but that the huntsman have spare she life , and that she have run for the whole day , until at last she have find they dwelling . the dwarf say , `` if you will take care of we house , cook , make the bed , wash , sew , and knit , and if you will keep everything neat and clean , you can stay with we and you shall want for nothing . '' `` yes , '' say Snow-white , `` with all my heart , '' and she stay with they . she keep the house in order for they ; in the morning they go to the mountain and look for copper and gold , in the evening they come back , and then they supper have to be ready . the girl be alone the whole day , so the good dwarf warn she and say , `` beware of you step-mother , she will soon know that you be here ; be sure to let no one come in . '' but the Queen , believe that she have eat snow-white 's heart , could not but think that she be again the first and most beautiful of all ; and she go to she looking-glass and say -- `` looking-glass , looking-glass , on the wall , who in this land be the fairest of all ? '' and the glass answer -- `` oh , Queen , thou art fairest of all I see , but over the hill , where the seven dwarf dwell , snow-white be still alive and well , and none be so fair as she . '' then she be astounded , for she know that the looking-glass never speak falsely , and she know that the huntsman have betray she , and that little snow-white be still alive . and so she think and think again how she might kill she , for so long as she be not the fairest in the whole land , envy let she have no rest . and when she have at last thought of something to do , she paint she face , and dress herself like a old pedler-woman , and no one could have know she . in this disguise she go over the seven mountain to the seven dwarf , and knock at the door and cry , `` Pretty thing to sell , very cheap , very cheap . '' Little Snow-white look out of the window and call out , `` good-day my good woman , what have you to sell ? '' `` good thing , pretty thing , '' she answer ; `` stay-laces of all color , '' and she pull out one which be weave of bright-coloured silk . `` I may let the worthy old woman in , '' think Snow-white , and she unbolt the door and buy the pretty lace . `` child , '' say the old woman , `` what a fright you look ; come , I will lace you properly for once . '' snow-white have no suspicion , but stand before she , and let herself be lace with the new lace . but the old woman lace so quickly and so tightly that snow-white lose she breath and fall down as if dead . `` now I be the most beautiful , '' say the Queen to herself , and run away . not long afterwards , in the evening , the seven dwarf come home , but how shocked they be when they see they dear little snow-white lie on the ground , and that she neither stir nor move , and seem to be dead . they lift she up , and , as they see that she be lace too tightly , they cut the lace ; then she begin to breathe a little , and after a while come to life again . when the dwarf hear what have happen they say , `` the old pedler-woman be no one else than the wicked Queen ; take care and let no one come in when we be not with you . '' but the wicked woman when she have reach home go in front of the glass and ask -- `` looking-glass , looking-glass , on the wall , who in this land be the fairest of all ? '' and it answer as before -- `` oh , Queen , thou art fairest of all I see , but over the hill , where the seven dwarf dwell , snow-white be still alive and well , and none be so fair as she . '' when she hear that , all she blood rush to she heart with fear , for she see plainly that little snow-white be again alive . `` but now , '' she say , `` I will think of something that shall put a end to you , '' and by the help of witchcraft , which she understand , she make a poisonous comb . then she disguise herself and take the shape of another old woman . so she go over the seven mountain to the seven dwarf , knock at the door , and cry , `` good thing to sell , cheap , cheap ! '' Little Snow-white look out and say , `` go away ; I can not let any one come in . '' `` I suppose you can look , '' say the old woman , and pull the poisonous comb out and hold it up . it please the girl so well that she let herself be beguile , and open the door . when they have make a bargain the old woman say , `` now I will comb you properly for once . '' Poor little snow-white have no suspicion , and let the old woman do as she please , but hardly have she put the comb in she hair than the poison in it take effect , and the girl fall down senseless . `` you paragon of beauty , '' say the wicked woman , `` you be do for now , '' and she go away . but fortunately it be almost evening , when the seven dwarf come home . when they see snow-white lie as if dead upon the ground they at once suspect the step-mother , and they look and find the poison comb . scarcely have they take it out when snow-white come to herself , and tell they what have happen . then they warn she once more to be upon she guard and to open the door to no one . the Queen , at home , go in front of the glass and say -- `` looking-glass , looking-glass , on the wall , who in this land be the fairest of all ? '' then it answer as before -- `` oh , Queen , thou art fairest of all I see , but over the hill , where the seven dwarf dwell , snow-white be still alive and well , and none be so fair as she . '' when she hear the glass speak thus she tremble and shake with rage . `` snow-white shall die , '' she cry , `` even if it cost I my life ! '' Thereupon she go into a quite secret , lonely room , where no one ever come , and there she make a very poisonous apple . outside it look pretty , white with a red cheek , so that everyone who see it long for it ; but whoever eat a piece of it must surely die . when the apple be ready she paint she face , and dress herself up as a country-woman , and so she go over the seven mountain to the seven dwarf . she knock at the door . snow-white put she head out of the window and say , `` I can not let any one in ; the seven dwarf have forbid I . '' `` it be all the same to I , '' answer the woman , `` I shall soon get rid of my apple . there , I will give you one . '' `` no , '' say Snow-white , `` I dare not take anything . '' `` be you afraid of poison ? '' say the old woman ; `` look , I will cut the apple in two piece ; you eat the red cheek , and I will eat the white . '' the apple be so cunningly make that only the red cheek be poison . snow-white long for the fine apple , and when she see that the woman eat part of it she could resist no longer , and stretch out she hand and take the poisonous half . but hardly have she a bit of it in she mouth than she fall down dead . then the Queen look at she with a dreadful look , and laugh aloud and say , `` White as snow , red as blood , black as ebony-wood ! this time the dwarf can not wake you up again . '' and when she ask of the looking-glass at home -- `` looking-glass , looking-glass , on the wall , who in this land be the fairest of all ? '' it answer at last -- `` oh , Queen , in this land thou art fairest of all . '' then she envious heart have rest , so far as a envious heart can have rest . the dwarf , when they come home in the evening , find snow-white lie upon the ground ; she breathe no longer and be dead . they lift she up , look to see whether they could find anything poisonous , unlaced she , comb she hair , wash she with water and wine , but it be all of no use ; the poor child be dead , and remain dead . they lay she upon a bier , and all seven of they sit round it and weep for she , and weep three day long . then they be go to bury she , but she still look as if she be live , and still have she pretty red cheek . they say , `` we could not bury she in the dark ground , '' and they have a transparent coffin of glass make , so that she could be see from all side , and they lay she in it , and write she name upon it in golden letter , and that she be a king 's daughter . then they put the coffin out upon the mountain , and one of they always stay by it and watch it . and bird come too , and weep for snow-white ; first a owl , then a raven , and last a dive . and now snow-white lay a long , long time in the coffin , and she do not change , but look as if she be asleep ; for she be as white as snow , as red as blood , and she hair be as black as ebony . it happen , however , that a king 's son come into the forest , and go to the dwarf ' house to spend the night . he see the coffin on the mountain , and the beautiful snow-white within it , and read what be write upon it in golden letter . then he say to the dwarf , `` let I have the coffin , I will give you whatever you want for it . '' but the dwarf answer , `` we will not part with it for all the gold in the world . '' then he say , `` let I have it as a gift , for I can not live without see snow-white . I will honor and prize she as my dearest possession . '' as he speak in this way the good dwarf take pity upon he , and give he the coffin . and now the King 's son have it carry away by he servant on they shoulder . and it happen that they stumble over a tree-stump , and with the shock the poisonous piece of apple which snow-white have bite off come out of she throat . and before long she open she eye , lift up the lid of the coffin , sit up , and be once more alive . `` oh , heaven , where be I ? '' she cry . the King 's son , full of joy , say , `` you be with I , '' and tell she what have happen , and say , `` I love you more than everything in the world ; come with I to my father 's palace , you shall be my wife . '' and snow-white be willing , and go with he , and they wedding be hold with great show and splendor . but Snow-white 's wicked step-mother be also bid to the feast . when she have array herself in beautiful clothes she go before the looking-glass , and say -- `` looking-glass , looking-glass , on the wall , who in this land be the fairest of all ? '' the glass answer -- `` oh , Queen , of all here the fairest art thou , but the young Queen be fairer by far as I trow . '' then the wicked woman utter a curse , and be so wretch , so utterly wretch , that she know not what to do . at first she would not go to the wedding at all , but she have no peace , and must go to see the young Queen . and when she go in she know snow-white ; and she stand still with rage and fear , and could not stir . but iron slipper have already be put upon the fire , and they be bring in with tong , and set before she . then she be force to put on the red-hot shoe , and dance until she drop down dead .