MOMOTARO , OR the story of the son of a PEACH . Japanese Writer Long , long ago there live , a old man and . a old woman ; they be peasant , and have to work hard to earn they daily rice . the old man use to go and cut grass for the farmer around , and while he be go the old woman , he wife , do the work of the house and work in they own little rice field . one day the old man go to the hill as usual to cut grass and the old woman take some clothes to the river to wash. . it be nearly summer , and the country be very beautiful to see in its fresh greenness as the two old people go on they way to work . the grass on the bank of the river look like emerald velvet , and the pussy willow along the edge of the water be shake out they soft tassel . the breeze blow and ruffle the smooth surface of the water into wavelet , and pass on touch the cheek of the old couple who , for some reason they could not explain , feel very happy that morning . the old woman at last find a nice spot by the river bank and put she basket down . then she set to work to wash the clothes ; she take they one by one out of the basket and wash they in the river and rub they on the stone . the water be as clear as crystal , and she could see the tiny fish swimming to and fro , and the pebble at the bottom . as she be busy wash she clothes a great peach come bump down the stream . the old woman look up from she work and see this large peach . she be sixty year of age , yet in all she life she have never see such a big peach as this . `` how delicious that peach must be ! '' she say to herself . `` I must certainly get it and take it home to my old man . '' she stretch out she arm to try and get it , but it be quite out of she reach . she look about for a stick , but there be not one to be see , and if she go to look for one she would lose the peach . stop a moment to think what she would do , she remember a old charm-verse . now she begin to clap she hand to keep time to the rolling of the peach down stream , and while she clap she sing this song : `` distant water be bitter , the near water be sweet ; Pass by the distant water and come into the sweet . '' strange to say , as soon as she begin to repeat this little song the peach begin to come nearer and nearer the bank where the old woman be stand , till at last it stop just in front of she so that she be able to take it up in she hand . the old woman be delighted . she could not go on with she work , so happy and excited be she , so she put all the clothes back in she bamboo basket , and with the basket on she back and the peach in she hand she hurry homeward . it seem a very long time to she to wait till she husband return . the old man at last come back as the sun be set , with a big bundle of grass on he back -- so big that he be almost hidden and she could hardly see he . he seem very tired and use the scythe for a walking stick , lean on it as he walk along . as soon as the old woman see he she call out : `` O Fii San ! -lrb-B- old man -rrb-B- I have be wait for you to come home for such a long time to-day ! '' `` what be the matter ? why be you so impatient ? '' ask the old man , wonder at she unusual eagerness . `` have anything happen while I have be away ? '' `` oh , no ! '' answer the old woman , `` nothing have happen , only I have find a nice present for you ! '' `` that be good , '' say the old man . he then wash he foot in a basin of water and step up to the veranda . the old woman now run into the little room and bring out from the cupboard the big peach . it feel even heavier than before . she hold it up to he , say : `` just look at this ! do you ever see such a large peach in all you life ? '' when the old man look at the peach he be greatly astonished and say : `` this be indeed the largest peach I have ever see ! Wherever do you buy it ? '' `` I do not buy it , '' answer the old woman . `` I find it in the river where I be wash . '' and she tell he the whole story . `` I be very glad that you have find it . let we eat it now , for I be hungry , '' say the O Fii San . he bring out the kitchen knife , and , place the peach on a board , be about to cut it when , wonderful to tell , the peach split in two of itself and a clear voice say : `` wait a bit , old man ! '' and out step a beautiful little child . the old man and he wife be both so astonished at what they see that they fall to the ground . the child speak again : `` do not be afraid . I be no demon or fairy . I will tell you the truth . Heaven have have compassion on you . every day and every night you have lament that you have no child . you cry have be hear and I be send to be the son of you old age ! '' on hearing this the old man and he wife be very happy . they have cry night and day for sorrow at have no child to help they in they lonely old age , and now that they prayer be answer they be so lose with joy that they do not know where to put they hand or they foot . first the old man take the child up in he arm , and then the old woman do the same ; and they name he MOMOTARO , OR SON of a PEACH , because he have come out of a peach . the year pass quickly by and the child grow to be fifteen year of age . he be taller and far stronger than any other boy of he own age , he have a handsome face and a heart full of courage , and he be very wise for he year . the old couple 's pleasure be very great when they look at he , for he be just what they think a hero ought to be like . one day Momotaro come to he foster-father and say solemnly : `` Father , by a strange chance we have become father and son . you goodness to I have be higher than the mountain grass which it be you daily work to cut , and deeper than the river where my mother wash the clothes . I do not know how to thank you enough . '' `` why , '' answer the old man , `` it be a matter of course that a father should bring up he son . when you be older it will be you turn to take care of we , so after all there will be no profit or loss between we -- all will be equal . indeed , I be rather surprise that you should thank I in this way ! '' and the old man look bother . `` I hope you will be patient with I , '' say Momotaro ; `` but before I begin to pay back you goodness to I I have a request to make which I hope you will grant I above everything else . '' `` I will let you do whatever you wish , for you be quite different to all other boy ! '' `` then let I go away at once ! '' `` what do you say ? Do you wish to leave you old father and mother and go away from you old home ? '' `` I will surely come back again , if you let I go now ! '' `` where be you go ? '' `` you must think it strange that I want to go away , '' say Momotaro , `` because I have not yet tell you my reason . Far away from here to the northeast of Japan there be a island in the sea . this island be the stronghold of a band of devil . I have often hear how they invade this land , kill and rob the people , and carry off all they can find . they be not only very wicked but they be disloyal to we Emperor and disobey he law . they be also cannibal , for they kill and eat some of the poor people who be so unfortunate as to fall into they hand . these devil be very hateful being . I must go and conquer they and bring back all the plunder of which they have rob this land . it be for this reason that I want to go away for a short time ! '' the old man be much surprise at hear all this from a mere boy of fifteen . he think it best to let the boy go . he be strong and fearless , and besides all this , the old man know he be no common child , for he have be send to they as a gift from Heaven , and he feel quite sure that the devil would be powerless to harm he . `` all you say be very interesting , Momotaro , '' say the old man . `` I will not hinder you in you determination . you may go if you wish . go to the island as soon as ever you like and destroy the demon and bring peace to the land . '' `` thank you , for all you kindness , '' say Momotaro , who begin to get ready to go that very day . he be full of courage and do not know what fear be . the old man and woman at once set to work to pound rice in the kitchen mortar to make cake for Momotaro to take with he on he journey . at last the cake be make and Momotaro be ready to start on he long journey . parting be always sad . so it be now . the eye of the two old people be fill with tear and they voice tremble as they say : `` go with all care and speed . we expect you back victorious ! '' Momotaro be very sorry to leave he old parent -lrb-B- though he know he be come back as soon as he could -rrb-B- , for he think of how lonely they would be while he be away . but he say `` good-by ! '' quite bravely . `` I be go now . take good care of yourselve while I be away . Good - by ! '' and he step quickly out of the house . in silence the eye of Momotaro and he parent meet in farewell . Momotaro now hurry on he way till it be midday . he begin to feel hungry , so he open he bag and take out one of the rice-cakes and sit down under a tree by the side of the road to eat it . while he be thus have he lunch a dog almost as large as a colt come run out from the high grass . he make straight for Momotaro , and show he tooth , say in a fierce way : `` you be a rude man to pass my field without ask permission first . if you leave I all the cake you have in you bag you may go ; otherwise I will bite you till I kill you ! '' Momotaro only laugh scornfully : `` what be that you be say ? Do you know who I be ? I be Momotaro , and I be on my way to subdue the devil in they island stronghold in the northeast of Japan . if you try to stop I on my way there I will cut you in two from the head downward ! '' the dog 's manner at once change . he tail drop between he leg , and come near he bow so low that he forehead touch the ground . `` what do I hear ? the name of Momotaro ? be you indeed Momotaro ? I have often hear of you great strength . not know who you be I have behave in a very stupid way . Will you please pardon my rudeness ? be you indeed on you way to invade the Island of DevilsS ? if you will take such a rude fellow with you as one of you follower , I shall be very grateful to you . '' `` I think I can take you with I if you wish to go , '' say Momotaro . `` thank you ! '' say the dog . `` by the way , I be very very hungry . Will you give I one of the cake you be carry ? '' `` this be the best kind of cake there be in Japan , '' say Momotaro . `` I can not spare you a whole one ; I will give you half of one . '' `` thank you very much , '' say the dog , take the piece throw to he . then Momotaro get up and the dog follow . for a long time they walk over the hill and through the valley . as they be go along a animal come down from a tree a little ahead of they . the creature soon come up to Momotaro and say : `` good morning , Momotaro ! you be welcome in this part of the country . Will you allow I to go with you ? '' the dog answer jealously : `` Momotaro already have a dog to accompany he . of what use be a monkey like you in battle ? we be on we way to fight the devil ! get away ! '' the dog and the monkey begin to quarrel and bite , for these two animal always hate each other . `` now , do not quarrel ! '' say Momotaro , put himself between they . `` wait a moment , dog ! '' `` it be not at all dignified for you to have such a creature as that follow you ! '' say the dog . `` what do you know about it ? '' ask Momotaro ; and push aside the dog , he speak to the monkey : `` who be you ? '' `` I be a monkey living in these hill , '' reply the monkey . '' I hear of you expedition to the Island of Devils , and I have come to go with you . nothing will please I more than to follow you ! '' `` do you really wish to go to the Island of DevilsS and fight with I ? '' `` yes , sir , '' reply the monkey . `` I admire you courage , '' say Momotaro . `` here be a piece of one of my fine rice-cakes . come along ! '' so the monkey join Momotaro . the dog and the monkey do not get on well together . they be always snap at each other as they go along , and always want to have a fight . this make Momotaro very cross , and at last he send the dog on ahead with a flag and put the monkey behind with a sword , and he place himself between they with a war-fan , which be make of iron . by and by they come to a large field . here a bird fly down and alight on the ground just in front of the little party . it be the most beautiful bird Momotaro have ever see . on its body be five different robe of feather and its head be cover with a scarlet cap . the dog at once run at the bird and try to seize and kill it . but the bird strike out its spur and fly at the dog 's tail , and the fight go hard with both . Momotaro , as he look on , could not help admire the bird ; it show so much spirit in the fight . it would certainly make a good fighter . Momotaro go up to the two combatant , and hold the dog back , say to the bird : `` you rascal ! you be hinder my journey . surrender at once , and I will take you with I . if you do not I will set this dog to bite you head off ! '' then the bird surrender at once , and beg to be take into Momotaro 's company . `` I do not know what excuse to offer for quarrel with the dog , you servant , but I do not see you . I be a miserable bird call a pheasant . it be very generous of you to pardon my rudeness and to take I with you . please allow I to follow you behind the dog and the monkey ! '' `` I congratulate you on surrender so soon , '' say Momotaro , smile . `` come and join we in we raid on the devil . '' `` be you go to take this bird with you also ? '' ask the dog , interrupt . `` why do you ask such a unnecessary question ? do not you hear what I say ? I take the bird with I because I wish to ! '' `` Humph ! '' say the dog . then Momotaro stand and give this order : `` now all of you must listen to I . the first thing necessary in a army be harmony . it be a wise say which say that ` advantage on earth be better than advantage in Heaven ! ' Union amongst ourselves be better than any earthly gain . when we be not at peace amongst ourselves it be no easy thing to subdue a enemy . from now , you three , the dog , the monkey and the pheasant , must be friend with one mind . the one who first begin a quarrel will be discharge on the spot ! '' all the three promise not to quarrel . the pheasant be now make a member of Momotaro 's suite , and receive half a cake . Momotaro 's influence be so great that the three become good friend , and hurry onward with he as they leader . hurry on day after day they at last come out upon the shore of the North-Eastern Sea . there be nothing to be see as far as the horizon -- not a sign of any island . all that break the stillness be the rolling of the wave upon the shore . now , the dog and the monkey and the pheasant have come very bravely all the way through the long valley and over the hill , but they have never see the sea before , and for the first time since they set out they be bewilder and gaze at each other in silence . how be they to cross the water and get to the Island of DevilsS ? Momotaro soon see that they be daunt by the sight of the sea , and to try they he speak loudly and roughly : `` why do you hesitate ? be you afraid of the sea ? oh ! what coward you be ! it be impossible to take such weak creature as you with I to fight the demon . it will be far better for I to go alone . I discharge you all at once ! '' the three animal be take aback at this sharp reproof , and cling to Momotaro 's sleeve , beg he not to send they away . `` please , Momotaro ! '' say the dog . `` we have come thus far ! '' say the monkey . `` it be inhuman to leave we here ! '' say the pheasant . `` we be not at all afraid of the sea , '' say the monkey again . `` please do take we with you , '' say the pheasant . `` do please , '' say the dog . they have now gain a little courage , so Momotaro say : `` well , then , I will take you with I , but be careful ! '' Momotaro now get a small ship , and they all get on board . the wind and weather be fair , and the ship go like a arrow over the sea . it be the first time they have ever be on the water , and so at first the dog , the monkey and the pheasant be frighten at the wave and the rolling of the vessel , but by degree they grow accustomed to the water and be quite happy again . every day they pace the deck of they little ship , eagerly look out for the demon ' island . when they grow tired of this , they tell each other story of all they exploit of which they be proud , and then play game together ; and Momotaro find much to amuse he in listen to the three animal and watch they antic , and in this way he forget that the way be long and that he be tire of the voyage and of do nothing . he long to be at work kill the monster who have do so much harm in he country . as the wind blow in they favor and they meet no storm the ship make a quick voyage , and one day when the sun be shine brightly a sight of land reward the four watcher at the bow . Momotaro know at once that what they see be the devil ' stronghold . on the top of the precipitous shore , look out to sea , be a large castle . now that he enterprise be close at hand , he be deep in thought with he head lean on he hand , wonder how he should begin the attack . he three follower watch he , wait for order . at last he call to the pheasant : `` it be a great advantage for we to have you with we . '' say Momotaro to the bird , `` for you have good wing . fly at once to the castle and engage the demon to fight . we will follow you . '' the pheasant at once obey . he fly off from the ship beat the air gladly with he wing . the bird soon reach the island and take up he position on the roof in the middle of the castle , call out loudly : `` all you devil listen to I ! the great japanese general Momotaro have come to fight you and to take you stronghold from you . if you wish to save you life surrender at once , and in token of you submission you must break off the horn that grow on you forehead . if you do not surrender at once , but make up you mind to fight , we , the pheasant , the dog and the monkey , will kill you all by bite and tear you to death ! '' the horned demon look up and only see a pheasant , laugh and say : `` a wild pheasant , indeed ! it be ridiculous to hear such word from a mean thing like you . wait till you get a blow from one of we iron bar ! '' very angry , indeed , be the devil . they shake they horn and they shock of red hair fiercely , and rush to put on tiger skin trousers to make themselves look more terrible . they then bring out great iron bar and run to where the pheasant perch over they head , and try to knock he down . the pheasant fly to one side to escape the blow , and then attack the head of first one and then another demon . he fly round and round they , beat the air with he wing so fiercely and ceaselessly , that the devil begin to wonder whether they have to fight one or many more bird . in the meantime , Momotaro have bring he ship to land . as they have approach , he see that the shore be like a precipice , and that the large castle be surround by high wall and large iron gate and be strongly fortify . Momotaro land , and with the hope of find some way of entrance , walk up the path towards the top , follow by the monkey and the dog . they soon come upon two beautiful damsel wash clothes in a stream . Momotaro see that the clothes be blood-stained , and that as the two maiden wash , the tear be fall fast down they cheek . he stop and speak to they : `` who be you , and why do you weep ? '' `` we be captive of the Demon King . we be carry away from we home to this island , and though we be the daughter of Daimios -lrb-B- LordsS -rrb-B- , we be oblige to be he servant , and one day he will kill we '' -- and the maiden hold up the blood-stained clothes -- `` and eat we , and there be no one to help we ! '' and they tear burst out afresh at this horrible thought . `` I will rescue you , '' say Momotaro . `` do not weep any more , only show I how I may get into the castle . '' then the two lady lead the way and show Momotaro a little back door in the lowest part of the castle wall -- so small that Momotaro could hardly crawl in . the pheasant , who be all this time fight hard , see Momotaro and he little band rush in at the back . Momotaro 's onslaught be so furious that the devil could not stand against he . at first they foe have be a single bird , the pheasant , but now that Momotaro and the dog and the monkey have arrive they be bewilder , for the four enemy fight like a hundred , so strong be they . some of the devil fall off the parapet of the castle and be dash to piece on the rock beneath ; other fall into the sea and be drown ; many be beat to death by the three animal . the chief of the devil at last be the only one left . he make up he mind to surrender , for he know that he enemy be stronger than mortal man . he come up humbly to Momotaro and throw down he iron bar , and kneel down at the victor 's foot he break off the horn on he head in token of submission , for they be the sign of he strength and power . `` I be afraid of you , '' he say meekly . `` I can not stand against you . I will give you all the treasure hide in this castle if you will spare my life ! '' Momotaro laugh . `` it be not like you , big devil , to beg for mercy , be it ? I can not spare you wicked life , however much you beg , for you have kill and tortured many people and rob we country for many year . '' then Momotaro tie the devil chief up and give he into the monkey 's charge . have do this , he go into all the room of the castle and set the prisoner free and gather together all the treasure he find . the dog and the pheasant carry home the plunder , and thus Momotaro return triumphantly to he home , take with he the devil chief as a captive . the two poor damsel , daughter of Daimios , and other whom the wicked demon have carry off to be he slave , be take safely to they own home and deliver to they parent . the whole country make a hero of Momotaro on he triumphant return , and rejoice that the country be now free from the robber devil who have be a terror of the land for a long time . the old couple 's joy be greater than ever , and the treasure Momotaro have bring home with he enable they to live in peace and plenty to the end of they day .