24 Mother Holle BrothersS Grimm there be once a widow who have two daughter -- one of whom be pretty and industrious , whilst the other be ugly and idle . but she be much fonder of the ugly and idle one , because she be she own daughter ; and the other , who be a step-daughter , be oblige to do all the work , and be the Cinderella of the house . every day the poor girl have to sit by a well , in the highway , and spin and spin till she finger bleed . now it happen that one day the shuttle be mark with she blood , so she dip it in the well , to wash the mark off ; but it drop out of she hand and fall to the bottom . she begin to weep , and run to she step-mother and tell she of the mishap . but she scold she sharply , and be so merciless as to say , `` since you have let the shuttle fall in , you must fetch it out again . '' so the girl go back to the well , and do not know what to do ; and in the sorrow of she heart she jump into the well to get the shuttle . she lose she sens ; and when she awake and come to herself again , she be in a lovely meadow where the sun be shine and many thousand of flower be grow . along this meadow she go , and at last come to a baker 's oven full of bread , and the bread cry out , `` oh , take I out ! take I out ! or I shall burn ; I have be baked a long time ! '' so she go up to it , and take out all the loaf one after another with the bread-shovel . after that she go on till she come to a tree cover with apple , which call out to she , `` oh , shake I ! shake I ! we apple be all ripe ! '' so she shake the tree till the apple fall like rain , and go on shake till they be all down , and when she have gather they into a heap , she go on she way . at last she come to a little house , out of which a old woman peep ; but she have such large tooth that the girl be frighten , and be about to run away . but the old woman call out to she , `` what be you afraid of , dear child ? Stay with I ; if you will do all the work in the house properly , you shall be the better for it . only you must take care to make my bed well , and shake it thoroughly till the feather fly -- for then there be snow on the earth . I be Mother Holle . as the old woman speak so kindly to she , the girl take courage and agree to enter she service . she attend to everything to the satisfaction of she mistress , and always shake she bed so vigorously that the feather fly about like snow-flakes . so she have a pleasant life with she ; never a angry word ; and boil or roast meat every day . she stay some time with Mother Holle , and then she become sad . at first she do not know what be the matter with she , but find at length that it be home-sickness : although she be many thousand time better off here than at home , still she have a longing to be there . at last she say to the old woman , `` I have a longing for home ; and however well off I be down here , I can not stay any longer ; I must go up again to my own people . '' Mother Holle say , `` I be pleased that you long for you home again , and as you have serve I so truly , I myself will take you up again . '' Thereupon she take she by the hand , and lead she to a large door . the door be open , and just as the maiden be stand beneath the doorway , a heavy shower of golden rain fall , and all the gold remain stick to she , so that she be completely cover over with it . `` you shall have that because you have be so industrious , '' say Mother Holle , and at the same time she give she back the shuttle which she have let fall into the well . Thereupon the door close , and the maiden find herself up above upon the earth , not far from she mother 's house . and as she go into the yard the cock be stand by the well-side , and cry -- `` cock-a-doodle-doo ! you golden girl 's come back to you ! '' so she go in to she mother , and as she arrive thus cover with gold , she be well receive , both by she and she sister . the girl tell all that have happen to she ; and as soon as the mother hear how she have come by so much wealth , she be very anxious to obtain the same good luck for the ugly and lazy daughter . she have to seat herself by the well and spin ; and in order that she shuttle might be stain with blood , she stick she hand into a thorn bush and prick she finger . then she throw she shuttle into the well , and jump in after it . she come , like the other , to the beautiful meadow and walk along the very same path . when she get to the oven the bread again cry , `` oh , take I out ! take I out ! or I shall burn ; I have be baked a long time ! '' but the lazy thing answer , `` as if I have any wish to make myself dirty ? '' and on she go . soon she come to the apple-tree , which cry , `` oh , shake I ! shake I ! we apple be all ripe ! '' but she answer , `` I like that ! one of you might fall on my head , '' and so go on . when she come to Mother Holle 's house she be not afraid , for she have already hear of she big tooth , and she hire herself to she immediately . the first day she force herself to work diligently , and obey Mother Holle when she tell she to do anything , for she be think of all the gold that she would give she . but on the second day she begin to be lazy , and on the third day still more so , and then she would not get up in the morning at all . neither do she make Mother Holle 's bed as she ought , and do not shake it so as to make the feather fly up . Mother Holle be soon tire of this , and give she notice to leave . the lazy girl be willing enough to go , and think that now the golden rain would come . Mother Holle lead she also to the great door ; but while she be stand beneath it , instead of the gold a big kettleful of pitch be empty over she . `` that be the reward for you service , '' say Mother Holle , and shut the door . so the lazy girl go home ; but she be quite cover with pitch , and the cock by the well-side , as soon as he see she , cry out -- `` cock-a-doodle-doo ! you pitchy girl 's come back to you ! '' but the pitch stick fast to she , and could not be get off as long as she live .