MY LORD BAG of RICE . Japanese Writer Long , long ago there live , in Japan a brave warrior know to all as Tawara Toda , or `` My Lord Bag of Rice . '' he true name be Fujiwara Hidesato , and there be a very interesting story of how he come to change he name . one day he sally forth in search of adventure , for he have the nature of a warrior and could not bear to be idle . so he buckle on he two sword , take he huge bow , much taller than himself , in he hand , and sling he quiver on he back start out . he have not go far when he come to the bridge of Seta-no-Karashi span one end of the beautiful Lake Biwa . no sooner have he set foot on the bridge than he see lie right across he path a huge serpent - dragon . its body be so big that it look like the trunk of a large pine tree and it take up the whole width of the bridge . one of its huge claw rest on the parapet of one side of the bridge , while its tail lay right against the other . the monster seem to be asleep , and as it breathe , fire and smoke come out of its nostril . at first Hidesato could not help feeling alarm at the sight of this horrible reptile lie in he path , for he must either turn back or walk right over its body . he be a brave man , however , and put aside all fear go forward dauntlessly . crunch , crunch ! he step now on the dragon 's body , now between its coil , and without even one glance backward he go on he way . he have only go a few step when he hear some one call he from behind . on turn back he be much surprise to see that the monster dragon have entirely disappear and in its place be a strange-looking man , who be bow most ceremoniously to the ground . he red hair stream over he shoulder and be surmount by a crown in the shape of a dragon 's head , and he sea-green dress be pattern with shell . Hidesato know at once that this be no ordinary mortal and he wonder much at the strange occurrence . where have the dragon go in such a short space of time ? or have it transform itself into this man , and what do the whole thing mean ? while these thought pass through he mind he have come up to the man on the bridge and now address he : `` be it you that call I just now ? '' `` yes , it be I , '' answer the man : `` I have a earnest request to make to you . Do you think you can grant it to I ? '' `` if it be in my power to do so I will , '' answer Hidesato , `` but first tell I who you be ? '' `` I be the Dragon King of the Lake , and my home be in these water just under this bridge . '' `` and what be it you have to ask of I ! '' say Hidesato . `` I want you to kill my mortal enemy the centipede , who live on the mountain beyond , '' and the Dragon King point to a high peak on the opposite shore of the lake . `` I have live now for many year in this lake and I have a large family of child and grand-children . for some time past we have live in terror , for a monster centipede have discover we home , and night after night it come and carry off one of my family . I be powerless to save they . if it go on much longer like this , not only shall I lose all my child , but I myself must fall a victim to the monster . I be , therefore , very unhappy , and in my extremity I determine to ask the help of a human being . for many day with this intention I have wait on the bridge in the shape of the horrible serpent-dragon that you see , in the hope that some strong brave man would come along . but all who come this way , as soon as they see I be terrify and run away as fast as they could . you be the first man I have find able to look at I without fear , so I know at once that you be a man of great courage . I beg you to have pity upon I . Will you not help I and kill my enemy the centipede ? '' Hidesato feel very sorry for the Dragon King on hear he story , and readily promise to do what he could to help he . the warrior ask where the centipede live , so that he might attack the creature at once . the Dragon King reply that its home be on the mountain Mikami , but that as it come every night at a certain hour to the palace of the lake , it would be better to wait till then . so Hidesato be conduct to the palace of the Dragon King , under the bridge . strange to say , as he follow he host downward the water part to let they pass , and he clothes do not even feel damp as he pass through the flood . never have Hidesato see anything so beautiful as this palace build of white marble beneath the lake . he have often hear of the Sea King 's palace at the bottom of the sea , where all the servant and retainer be salt-water fish , but here be a magnificent building in the heart of Lake Biwa . the dainty goldfish , red carp , and silvery trout , wait upon the Dragon King and he guest . Hidesato be astonish at the feast that be spread for he . the dish be crystallize lotus leaf and flower , and the chopstick be of the rarest ebony . as soon as they sit down , the slide door open and ten lovely goldfish dancer come out , and behind they follow ten red-carp musician with the koto and the samisen . thus the hour fly by till midnight , and the beautiful music and dancing have banish all thought of the centipede . the Dragon King be about to pledge the warrior in a fresh cup of wine when the palace be suddenly shake by a tramp , tramp ! as if a mighty army have begin to march not far away . Hidesato and he host both rise to they foot and rush to the balcony , and the warrior see on the opposite mountain two great ball of glowing fire come nearer and nearer . the Dragon King stand by the warrior 's side tremble with fear . `` the centipede ! the centipede ! those two ball of fire be its eye . it be come for its prey ! now be the time to kill it . '' Hidesato look where he host point , and , in the dim light of the starlit evening , behind the two ball of fire he see the long body of a enormous centipede wind round the mountain , and the light in its hundred foot glow like so many distant lantern move slowly towards the shore . Hidesato show not the least sign of fear . he try to calm the Dragon King . `` do not be afraid . I shall surely kill the centipede . just bring I my bow and arrow . '' the Dragon King do as he be bid , and the warrior notice that he have only three arrow leave in he quiver . he take the bow , and fitting a arrow to the notch , take careful aim and let fly . the arrow hit the centipede right in the middle of its head , but instead of penetrate , it glance off harmless and fall to the ground . nothing daunt , Hidesato take another arrow , fit it to the notch of the bow and let fly . again the arrow hit the mark , it strike the centipede right in the middle of its head , only to glance off and fall to the ground . the centipede be invulnerable to weapon ! when the Dragon King see that even this brave warrior 's arrow be powerless to kill the centipede , he lose heart and begin to tremble with fear . the warrior see that he have now only one arrow leave in he quiver , and if this one fail he could not kill the centipede . he look across the water . the huge reptile have wind its horrid body seven time round the mountain and would soon come down to the lake . Nearer and nearer gleam fireball of eye , and the light of its hundred foot begin to throw reflection in the still water of the lake . then suddenly the warrior remember that he have hear that human saliva be deadly to centipede . but this be no ordinary centipede . this be so monstrous that even to think of such a creature make one creep with horror . Hidesato determine to try he last chance . so take he last arrow and first put the end of it in he mouth , he fit the notch to he bow , take careful aim once more and let fly . this time the arrow again hit the centipede right in the middle of its head , but instead of glance off harmlessly as before , it strike home to the creature 's brain . then with a convulsive shudder the serpentine body stop move , and the fiery light of its great eye and hundred foot darken to a dull glare like the sunset of a stormy day , and then go out in blackness . a great darkness now overspread the heaven , the thunder roll and the lightning flash , and the wind roar in fury , and it seem as if the world be come to a end . the Dragon King and he child and retainer all crouch in different part of the palace , frighten to death , for the building be shake to its foundation . at last the dreadful night be over . Day dawn beautiful and clear . the centipede be go from the mountain . then Hidesato call to the Dragon King to come out with he on the balcony , for the centipede be dead and he have nothing more to fear . then all the inhabitant of the palace come out with joy , and Hidesato point to the lake . there lay the body of the dead centipede float on the water , which be dye red with its blood . the gratitude of the Dragon King know no bound . the whole family come and bow down before the warrior , call he they preserver and the bravest warrior in all Japan . another feast be prepare , more sumptuous than the first . all kind of fish , prepare in every imaginable way , raw , stewed , boiled and roasted , serve on coral tray and crystal dish , be put before he , and the wine be the best that Hidesato have ever taste in he life . to add to the beauty of everything the sun shone brightly , the lake glitter like a liquid diamond , and the palace be a thousand time more beautiful by day than by night . he host try to persuade the warrior to stay a few day , but Hidesato insist on go home , say that he have now finish what he have come to do , and must return . the Dragon King and he family be all very sorry to have he leave so soon , but since he would go they beg he to accept a few small present -lrb-B- so they say -rrb-B- in token of they gratitude to he for deliver they forever from they horrible enemy the centipede . as the warrior stand in the porch take leave , a train of fish be suddenly transform into a retinue of man , all wear ceremonial robe and dragon 's crown on they head to show that they be servant of the great Dragon King . the present that they carry be as follow : First , a large bronze bell . Second , a bag of rice . Third , a roll of silk . fourth , a cooking pot . Fifth , a bell . Hidesato do not want to accept all these present , but as the Dragon King insist , he could not well refuse . the Dragon King himself accompany the warrior as far as the bridge , and then take leave of he with many bow and good wish , leave the procession of servant to accompany Hidesato to he house with the present . the warrior 's household and servant have be very much concern when they find that he do not return the night before , but they finally conclude that he have be keep by the violent storm and have take shelter somewhere . when the servant on the watch for he return catch sight of he they call to every one that he be approach , and the whole household turn out to meet he , wonder much what the retinue of man , bear present and banner , that follow he , could mean . as soon as the Dragon King 's retainer have put down the present they vanish , and Hidesato tell all that have happen to he . the present which he have receive from the grateful Dragon King be find to be of magic power . the bell only be ordinary , and as Hidesato have no use for it he present it to the temple near by , where it be hang up , to boom out the hour of day over the surround neighborhood . the single bag of rice , however much be take from it day after day for the meal of the knight and he whole family , never grow less -- the supply in the bag be inexhaustible . the roll of silk , too , never grow shorter , though time after time long piece be cut off to make the warrior a new suit of clothes to go to Court in at the New Year . the cooking pot be wonderful , too . no matter what be put into it , it cook deliciously whatever be want without any firing -- truly a very economical saucepan . the fame of Hidesato 's fortune spread far and wide , and as there be no need for he to spend money on rice or silk or firing , he become very rich and prosperous , and be henceforth know as My Lord Bag of Rice .