NEIGHBOUR PETER be MARE La Fontain A CERTAIN pious rector -lrb-B- John he name -rrb-B- , but little preached , except when vintage come ; and then no preparation he require on this he triumph and be much admire . another point he handle very well , though oft ` ner he would thereon have like to dwell , and this the child of the present day , so fully know , there be naught for I to say : John to the sens thing so clearly bring , that much by wife and husband he be seek , who hold he knowledge of superior price , and pay attention to he sage advice . around , whatever conscience he might find , to soft delight and easy way incline , in person he would rigidly attend , and seek to act the confessor and friend ; not e ` en he curate would he trust with these ; but zealously he try to give they ease , and ev ` ry where would due attention show , observe that divine should always know they flock most thoroughly and visit round ; to give instruction and the truth expound . among the folk , to whom he visit pay , be neighbor Peter , one who use the spade ; a villager that God , in lieu of land , have furnish only with a pair of hand , to dig and delve , and by the mattock gain Enough he wife and child to maintain . still youthful charm you in he spouse might trace ; the weather injure solely have she face , but not the feature which be perfect yet : some wish perhaps more bloom belle to get ; the rustick truly I would ne'er have please ; but such be oft by country parson seize , who low amours and dish coarse admire , that palate more refined would not desire . the pastor John would often on she leer , just as a cur , when store of bone be near , that would good pickings for he tooth afford , attentively behold the precious hoard , and seem uneasy ; move he foot and tail ; now prick he ear ; then fear he can not prevail , the eye still fix upon the bite in sight , which twenty time to these afford delight , Ere to he longing jaw the boon arrive , however anxiously the suitor strive . self-torments solely parson John obtain ; by see she that o ` er he sens reign . the village-wife be innocent of this , and never dream of any thing amiss ; the pastor 's mystick look , nor flatt ` ring way ; nor present , aught in Magdalene could raise ; but nosegay make of thyme , and marj ` ram too , be dropt on ground , or never keep in view ; a hundred little care appear as naught 'Twas Welch to she , and ne'er convey a thought . a pleasant stratagem he now contrived , from which , he hope , success might be derive . most clearly Peter be a heavy lout , yet truly I could never have a doubt , that rashly he would ne'er himself commit , though folly ` twere from he to look for wit , or aught expect by question to find ` yond this to reason , he be not design . the rector to he say , thou ` rt poor , my friend , and hast not half enough for food to spend , with other thing that necessary prove , if we below with comfort wish to move . some day I 'll show thee how thou may ` st procure the means that will thy happiness insure , and make thee feel contented as a king . to I what present for it wilt thou bring ? ZOOKS ! Peter answer , parson , I desire , you 'll I direct to do as you require ; my labor pray command ; ` tis all I have get ; we pig howe'er to you we can allot , we want it not ; and truly it have eat more bran than thrice this vessel would complete ; the cow you 'll take besides , from which my wife a calf expect , to raise the means of life . no , no , the pastor with a smile reply , a recompense for this thou ` lt not provide ; my neighbor to oblige be all I heed ; and now I 'll tell thee how thou must proceed ; Thy spouse , by magick , I 'll transform each day , and turn she to a mare for cart or dray , and then again restore she ev ` ry night , to human form to give thy heart delight . from this to thee great profit will arise ; Thy ass , so slow be find , that when supplies , it carry to the market , ` tis so late , the hour be almost past ere at the gate , and then thy cabbage , and herb , and root , provision , provender , and wares and fruit , remain unsold , and home to spoil be bring , since rarely far from thence such thing be seek . but when thy wife 's a mare , she 'll faster go : strong , active , ev ` ry way she worth she 'll show , and home will come without expense in meat : no soup nor bread , but solely herb she 'll eat : say Peter , parson , clearly you be wise ; from learning , what advantage arise ! be this pray sell ? -- if I would much money get , to make the purchase I have the cash allot . CONTINUED John : -- now I will thee instruct , the proper manner , matter to conduct , for thee to have a clever mare by day , and still at night a charming wife survey ; Face , leg , and ev ` ry thing shall reappear ; come , see it do , and I 'll perform it here ; Thou ` lt then the method fully comprehend ; but hold thy tongue , or all will quickly end : a single word the magick would dispel , and , during life , no more with we ` twould dwell . keep close thy mouth and merely ope ' thy eye : a glimpse alone to learn it will suffice ; this o ` er , thyself shall practice it the same , and all will follow as when first it come . the husband promise he would hold he tongue ; and John dislike defer matter long . come , Magdalene , say he , you will undress ; to quit those sunday-clothes , you 'll acquiesce , and put yourself in Nature 's pure array well , well , proceed ; with stay and sleeve away ; that be better still ; now petticoat lay by ; how nicely with my order you comply . when Magdalene be to the linen come , some mark of shame around she sens swim ; a wife to live and die be she desire , much rather than be see in Eve 's attire ; she vow that , spite of what the priest disclose ; she never would consent to be expose . say Peter , pretty work , upon my truth : -- not let we see how you be make forsooth ! what silly scruple ! -- be they in you creed ? you be not always lead such scene to heed : Pray how d'ye manage when for flea you seek ? ` ti strange , good sir , that she should be so weak ; what can you fear ? -- ` ti folly time to waste ; he will not eat you : come , I say , make haste : Have do with haggle ; have you act right , Ere now the parson all have finish quite . on say this , she garment off he take ; put on he spectacles to overlook ; and parson John , without delay , begin ; Said he -lrb-B- as o ` er she person now he run -rrb-B- , this part umbilical will make the mare a noble breast , and strength at once declare : then further on the pastor place he hand , while , with the other , -lrb-B- as a magick wand , -rrb-B- he set about transform mount of snow ; that in we clime a genial warmth bestow , and semi-globes be call , while those that rise in t ` other hemisphere , of larger size , be seldom mention , through respect no doubt , but these howe'er the parson , quite devout , would not neglect , and whatsoe'er he feel , he always name , and on its beauty dwell ; the ceremony this , it seem , require , and fully ev ` ry movement John admire . proceedings so minute give Peter pain , and as he could not see the rector gain the slightest change , he pray the pow ` r divine , to give assistance to the priest 's design ; but this be vain , since all the magick spell , in metamorphose the lady well , depend on the fix of the tail ; without this ornament the whole would fail . to set it on the parson hasten now , when Neighbour Peter ` gan to knit he brow , and bawl so loud , you might have hear he far : no tail , say he , I 'll have : there 'll be a scar ; you put it on too low ; but vain he cry , the husband 's diligence would not suffice , for , spite of ev ` ry effort , much be do , and John completely he career have run , if Peter have not pull the rector 's gown , who hastily reply , thou ninny , clown ; do I not tell thee silence to observe , and not a footstep from thy station swerve ? the whole be spoil , insufferable elf ! and for it thou hast get to thank thyself . the husband , while the holy pastor speak , appear to grumble and he star invoke . the wife be in a rage , and ` gan to scold : Said she to Peter , wretch that I behold ! Thou ` lt be through life a prey to pain and grief , come not to I and bray and hope relief , the worthy pastor would have we procure the means that might much comfort have ensure . can he deserve such treatment to receive ? good Mister John this goose I now would leave , and ev ` ry morning , while he gather fruit , or plant , herb , cabbage , and various root , without avert he , pray , here repair , you 'll soon transform I to a charming mare . no mare , reply the husband , I desire ; a ass for I be all that I require .