NICAISE La Fontain to serve the shop as ` prentice be the lot ; of one who have the name of Nicaise get ; a lad quite ignorant beyond he trade , and what arithmetick might lend he aid ; a perfect novice in the wily art , that in amours be use to win the heart . good tradesman formerly be late to learn the trick that soon in friar we discern ; they ne'er be know those lesson to begin , till more than down appear upon the chin . but now-a-days , in practice , ` tis confess , these shopkeeper be know as the best . OUR lad of ancient date be less advanced ; at scene of love he eye have never glance ; be that as ` twill , he now be in the way , and naught but want of wit produce delay : a belle indeed have on he set she heart he master 's daughter feel LOVE 's poignant smart ; a girl of most engaging mind and mien , and always steady in she conduct see . sincerity of soul or humor free , or whether with she taste it might agree , a fool 'twa clear preside o ` er she soul , and all she thought and action feel control . some bold gallant would p ` erhap inform she plain , she ever keep wild Folly in she train , and nothing say to I who tale relate ; but oft on reason such proceedings wait . if you a goddess love , advance she 'll make ; we belle the same advantage would take . she fortune , wit , and charm , attention draw , and many spark would anxiously pursue ; how happy he who should she heart obtain , and Hymen prove he have not sigh in vain ! but she have promise , to the modest youth , who first be name , she confidence and truth ; the little god of please soft desire with full compliance with he whim require . the belle be please the ` prentice to prefer : a handsome lad with truth we may aver , quite young , well make , with fascinating eye : such charm be ne'er despise we may rely , but treasure think , no FAIR will e ` er neglect ; Whate'er she sens say , she 'll these respect . for one that LOVE lay hold of by the soul , a thousand by the eye receive control . this sprightly girl with soft endearing ease , Exerted ev ` ry care the lad to please , to he regard she never shy appear ; now pinch he arm , then smile and often leer ; she hand across he eye would sometimes put ; at other try to step upon he foot . to this he nothing offer in reply , Though oft he throbbing bosom heave a sigh . so many tender scene , at length we find , produce the explanation love design ; the youthful couple , we may well believe , would from each other mutual vow receive ; they neither promise nor kiss spare , incalculable be the number share ; if he have try to keep exact account , he soon have be bewilder with th ' amount ; to such infinity it clearly run , MistakesS would rise if he pursue the plan ; a ceremony solely be require , which prudent girl have always much admire , yet this to wait give pain and make she grieve ; from you , say she , the boon I would receive ; or while I live the rapture never know , that Hymen at he altar can bestow ; to you I promise , by the pow ` r divine , my hand and heart I truly will resign . howe'er I 'll freely say , should hymen fail to make I you 's and wish not prevail , you must not fancy I 'll become a nun , Though much I hope to act as I have begin ; to marry you would please I to the soul ; but how can we the ruling pow ` r control ? too much I be confident you love my fame , to aim at what might bring I soon to shame : in wedlock I have be ask by that and this ; my father think these offer not amiss ; but , Nicaise , I 'll allow you still to hope , that if with other I be obliged to cope , no matter whether counsellor or judge . since clearly ev ` ry thing to such I grudge , the marriage eve , or morn , or day , or hour , to you I 'll give -- the first enchanting flow ` r. the lad most gratefully he thanks return ; he breast with ev ` ry soft emotion burn . within a week , to this sweet charmer come , a rich young squire , who soon declare he flame ; on which she say to Nicaise : -- he will do ; this spark will easily let matter through ; and as the belle be confident of that , she give consent and listen to he chat . soon all be settle and arrange the day , when marriage they no longer would delay , you 'll fully notice this : -- I think I view the thought which move around and you pursue ; 'Twas doubtless clear , whatever bliss in store , the lady be betroth , and nothing more . though all be fix a week before the day , yet fear accident might thing delay , or even break the treaty ere complete , she would not we apprentice fully greet , till on the very morn she give she hand , Lest chance defeat what be nicely plan . HOWE ` er the belle be to the altar lead , a virgin still , and doom the squire to wed , who , quite impatient , consummation seek , as soon as he the charmer back have bring ; but she solicit the day apart , and this obtain , alone by prayer and art . 'twa early morn , and ` stead of bed she dress , in ev ` ry thing a queen have think the best ; with diamond , pearl , and various jewel rare ; she husband riches have , she be aware , which raise she into rank that dress require , and all she neighbor envy and admire . she lover , to secure the promised bliss , a hour 's indulgence gain to take a kiss . a bow ` r within a garden be the spot , which , for they private meeting , they have get . a confidant have be employ around , to watch if any one be lurk find . the lady be the first who thither come ; to get a nosegay be , she say , she aim ; and Nicaise presently she step pursue , who , when the turf within the bow ` r he view , Exclaimed , oh la ! how wet it be my dear ! you handsome clothes will be spoil I fear ! a carpet let I instantly provide ? Deuce take the clothes ! the fair with anger cry ; Ne'er think of that : I 'll say I have a fall ; such accident a loss I would not call , when Time so clearly on the wing appear , ` tis right to banish scruple , care , and fear ; nor think of clothes nor dress , however fine , but those to dirt or flame at once resign ; Far better this than precious time to waste , since frequently in minute bliss we taste ; a quarter of a hour we now should prize , the place no doubt will very well suffice ; with you it rest such moment to employ , and mutually we bosom fill with joy . I scarcely ought to say what now I speak , but anxiously you happiness I seek . INDEED , the anxious , tender youth reply , to save such costly clothes we should decide ; I 'll run at once , and presently be here ; two minute will suffice I be very clear . away the silly lad with ardor fly , and leave no time objection to renew . he wondrous folly cure the charming dame ; Whose soul so much disdain she recent flame ; that instantly she heart resume its place , which have too long be load with disgrace : go , prince of fool , she to herself exclaim , for ever , of thy conduct , be ashamed ; to lose thee surely I can ne'er regret , impossible a worse I could have meet . I have now consider , and ` tis very plain , Thou merit ` st not such favor to obtain ; from hence I swear , by ev ` ry thing above ; my husband shall alone possess my love ; and least I might be tempt to betray , to he I 'll instantly the boon convey , which Nicaise might have easily receive ; thank Heav ` n my breast from folly be relieve . this say , by disappointment render sour , the beauteous bride in anger leave the bow ` r. soon with the carpet simple Nicaise come , and find that thing no longer be the same . the lucky hour , ye suitor learn I pray , be not each time the clock strike through the day , in Cupid 's alphabet I think I have read , Old Time , by lover , like not to be lead ; and since so closely he pursue he plan , ` tis right to seize he , often as you can . delay be dangerous , in love or war , and Nicaise be a proof they fortune mar. . quite out of breath with have quickly run ; Delighted too that he so soon have do , the youth return most anxious to employ , the carpet for he mistress to enjoy , but she alas ! with rage upon she brow , have leave the spot , he know not why nor how ; and to she company return in haste the flame extinguish that she mind disgrace . perhaps she go the jewel to bestow , upon she spouse , whose breast with joy would glow : what jewel pray ? -- the one that ev ` ry maid pretend to have , whatever trick she be play . this I believe ; but I 'll no danger run ; to burn my finger I have not yet begin ; yet I allow , howe'er , in such a case , the girl , who fib , therein no sin can trace . OUR belle who , thanks to Nicaise , yet retain ; in spite of self , the flow ` r he might have gain , be grumble still , when he the lady meet why , how be this , cry he , do you forget , that for this carpet I have go away ? when spread , how nicely on it we might play ! you would soon to woman change the silly maid ; come , let 's return , and not the bliss evade ; no fear of dirt nor spoiling of you dress ; and then my love I fully will express . not so , reply the disappointed dame , we 'll put it off : -- perhaps ` twould hurt you frame you health I value , and I would advise , to be at ease , take breath , and prudence prize ; Apprentice in a shop you now be bind next ` prentice go to some gallant around ; you 'll not so soon he pleasing art require , nor to you tutorage can I now aspire . friend Nicaise take some neighb ` ring servant maid , you be quite a master in the shopping trade ; Stuffs you can sell , and ask the highest price ; and to advantage turn thing in a trice . but opportunity you can not discern ; to know its value , -- prithee go and learn .