NINETEENTH evening . H. C. Andersen `` I come from Rome , '' say the moon . `` in the midst of the city , upon one of the seven hill , lie the ruin of the imperial palace . the wild fig tree grow in the cleft of the wall , and cover the nakedness thereof with its broad grey-green leaf ; trample among heap of rubbish , the ass tread upon green laurel , and rejoice over the rank thistle . from this spot , whence the eagle of Rome once fly abroad , whence they ` come , see , and conquer , ' we door lead into a little mean house , build of clay between two pillar ; the wild vine hang like a mourn garland over the crooked window . a old woman and she little granddaughter live there : they rule now in the palace of the Caesars , and show to stranger the remains of its past glory . of the splendid throne-hall only a naked wall yet stand , and a black cypress throw its dark shadow on the spot where the throne once stand . the dust lie several foot deep on the broken pavement ; and the little maiden , now the daughter of the imperial palace , often sit there on she stool when the evening bell ring . the keyhole of the door close by she call she turret window ; through this she can see half Rome , as far as the mighty cupola of St. Peter 's . `` on this evening , as usual , stillness reign around ; and in the full beam of my light come the little granddaughter . on she head she carry a earthen pitcher of antique shape fill with water . she foot be bare , she short frock and she white sleeve be tear . I kiss she pretty round shoulder , she dark eye , and black shine hair . she mount the stair ; they be steep , have be make up of rough block of broken marble and the capital of a fallen pillar . the color lizard slip away , startle , from before she foot , but she be not frighten at they . already she lift she hand to pull the door-bell -- a hare 's foot fasten to a string form the bell-handle of the imperial palace . she pause for a moment -- of what might she be think ? perhaps of the beautiful christ-child , dress in gold and silver , which be down below in the chapel , where the silver candlestick gleam so bright , and where she little friend sing the hymn in which she also could join ? I know not . presently she move again -- she stumble ; the earthen vessel fall from she head , and break on the marble step . she burst into tear . the beautiful daughter of the imperial palace weep over the worthless broken pitcher ; with she bare foot she stand there weep , and dare not pull the string , the bell-rope of the imperial palace ! ''