NINTH evening . H. C. Andersen the air be clear again . several evening have pass , and the moon be in the first quarter . again he give I a outline for a sketch . listen to what he tell I . `` I have follow the polar bird and the swimming whale to the eastern coast of Greenland . Gaunt ice-covered rock and dark cloud hang over a valley , where dwarf willow and barberry bush stand clothe in green . the bloom lychni exhale sweet odour . my light be faint , my face pale as the water lily that , tear from its stem , have be drift for week with the tide . the crown-shaped Northern Light burn fiercely in the sky . its ring be broad , and from its circumference the ray shoot like whirling shaft of fire across the whole sky , flash in change radiance from green to red . the inhabitant of that icy region be assemble for dance and festivity ; but , accustom to this glorious spectacle , they scarcely deign to glance at it . ` let we leave the soul of the dead to they ball-play with the head of the walrus , ' they think in they superstition , and they turn they whole attention to the song and dance . in the midst of the circle , and divest of he furry cloak , stand a Greenlander , with a small pipe , and he play and sing a song about catch the seal , and the chorus around chime in with , ' _ Eia , Eia , ah . _ ' and in they white fur they dance about in the circle , till you might fancy it be a polar bear 's ball . `` and now a court of judgment be open . those greenlander who have quarrel step forward , and the offended person chant forth the fault of he adversary in a extempore song , turn they sharply into ridicule , to the sound of the pipe and the measure of the dance . the defendant reply with satire as keen , while the audience laugh , and give they verdict . the rock heave , the glacier melt , and great mass of ice and snow come crash down , shiver to fragment as they fall : it be a glorious Greenland summer night . a hundred pace away , under the open tent of hide , lay a sick man . Life still flow through he warm blood , but still he be to die -- he himself feel it , and all who stand round he know it also ; therefore he wife be already sowing round he the shroud of fur , that she might not afterwards be oblige to touch the dead body . and she ask , ` wilt thou be bury on the rock , in the firm snow ? I will deck the spot with thy _ kayak _ , and thy arrow , and the _ angekokk _ shall dance over it . or wouldst thou rather be bury in the sea ? ' ` in the sea , ' he whisper , and nod with a mournful smile . ` yes , it be a pleasant summer tent , the sea , ' observe the wife . ` thousand of seal sport there , the walrus shall lie at thy foot , and the hunt will be safe and merry ! ' and the yell child tear the outspread hide from the window-hole , that the dead man might be carry to the ocean , the billowy ocean , that have give he food in life , and that now , in death , be to afford he a place of rest . for he monument , he have the floating , ever-changing iceberg , whereon the seal sleep , while the storm bird fly round they gleaming summit ! ''