196 Old Rinkrank BrothersS Grimm there be once on a time a king who have a daughter , and he cause a glass mountain to be make , and say that whosoever could cross to the other side of it without fall should have he daughter to wife . then there be one who love the King 's daughter , and he ask the King if he might have she . `` yes , '' say the King ; `` if you can cross the mountain without fall , you shall have she . '' and the princess say she would go over it with he , and would hold he if he be about to fall . so they set out together to go over it , and when they be half way up the princess slip and fall , and the glass-mountain open and shut she up inside it , and she betrothed could not see where she have go , for the mountain close immediately . then he weep and lament much , and the King be miserable too , and have the mountain break open where she have be lose , and though the would be able to get she out again , but they could not find the place into which she have fall . meanwhile the King 's daughter have fall quite deep down into the earth into a great cave . a old fellow with a very long gray beard come to meet she , and tell she that if she would be he servant and do everything he bid she , she might live , if not he would kill she . so she do all he bid she . in the morning he take he ladder out of he pocket , and set it up against the mountain and climb to the top by its help , and then he draw up the ladder after he . the princess have to cook he dinner , make he bed , and do all he work , and when he come home again he always bring with he a heap of gold and silver . when she have live with he for many year , and have grow quite old , he call she Mother Mansrot , and she have to call he old Rinkrank . then once when he be out , and she have make he bed and wash he dish , she shut the door and window all fast , and there be one little window through which the light shone in , and this she leave open . when Old Rinkrank come home , he knock at he door , and cry , `` Mother Mansrot , open the door for I . '' `` no , '' say she , `` Old Rinkrank , I will not open the door for thee . '' then he say , `` here stand I , poor Rinkrank , on my seventeen long shank , on my weary , worn-out foot , Wash my dish , Mother Mansrot . '' `` I have wash thy dish already , '' say she . then again he say , `` here stand I , poor Rinkrank , on my seventeen long shank , on my weary , worn-out foot , Make I my bed , Mother Mansrot . '' `` I have make thy bed already , '' say she . then again he say , `` here stand I , poor Rinkrank , on my seventeen long shank , on my weary , worn-out foot , Open the door , Mother Mansrot . '' then he run all round he house , and see that the little window be open , and think , `` I will look in and see what she can be about , and why she will not open the door for I . '' he try to peep in , but could not get he head through because of he long beard . so he first put he beard through the open window , but just as he have get it through , Mother Mansrot come by and pull the window down with a cord which she have tie to it , and he beard be shut fast in it . then he begin to cry most piteously , for it hurt he very much , and to entreat she to release he again . but she say not until he give she the ladder with which he ascend the mountain . then , whether he would or not , he have to tell she where the ladder be . and she fasten a very long ribbon to the window , and then she set up the ladder , and ascend the mountain , and when she be at the top of it she open the window . she go to she father , and tell he all that have happen to she . the King rejoice greatly , and she betrothed be still there , and they go and dig up the mountain , and find Old Rinkrank inside it with all he gold and silver . then the King have Old Rinkrank put to death , and take all he gold and silver . the princess marry she betroth , and live right happily in great magnificence and joy .