48 Old Sultan BrothersS Grimm a farmer once have a faithful dog call Sultan , who have grow old , and lose all he tooth , so that he could no longer hold anything fast . one day the farmer be stand with he wife before the house-door , and say , `` to-morrow I intend to shoot Old Sultan , he be no longer of any use . '' he wife , who feel pity for the faithful beast , answer , `` he have serve we so long , and be so faithful , that we might well give he he keep . '' `` eh ! what ? '' say the man . `` you be not very sharp . he have not a tooth leave in he mouth , and not a thief be afraid of he ; now he may be off . if he have serve we , he have have good feeding for it . '' the poor dog , who be lie stretch out in the sun not far off , have hear everything , and be sorry that the morrow be to be he last day . he have a good friend , the wolf , and he creep out in the evening into the forest to he , and complain of the fate that await he . `` Hark ye , gossip , '' say the wolf , `` be of good cheer , I will help you out of you trouble . I have think of something . to-morrow , early in the morning , you master be go with he wife to make hay , and they will take they little child with they , for no one will be leave behind in the house . they be wont , during work-time , to lay the child under the hedge in the shade ; you lay yourself there too , just as if you wish to guard it . then I will come out of the wood , and carry off the child . you must rush swiftly after I , as if you would seize it again from I . I will let it fall , and you will take it back to its parent , who will think that you have save it , and will be far too grateful to do you any harm ; on the contrary , you will be in high favor , and they will never let you want for anything again . '' the plan please the dog , and it be carry out just as it be arrange . the father scream when he see the Wolf run across the field with he child , but when Old Sultan bring it back , then he be full of joy , and stroke he and say , `` not a hair of yours shall be hurt , you shall eat my bread free as long as you live . '' and to he wife he say , `` go home at once and make Old Sultan some bread-sop that he will not have to bite , and bring the pillow out of my bed , I will give he that to lie upon . '' Henceforth Old Sultan be as well off as he could wish to be . soon afterwards the wolf visit he , and be please that everything have succeed so well . `` but , gossip , '' say he , `` you will just wink a eye if when I have a chance , I carry off one of you master 's fat sheep . '' `` do not reckon upon that , '' answer the dog ; `` I will remain true to my master ; I can not agree to that . '' the wolf , who think that this could not be speak in earnest , come creep about in the night and be go to take away the sheep . but the farmer , to whom the faithful Sultan have tell the wolf 's plan , catch he and dress he hide soundly with the flail . the wolf have to pack off , but he cry out to the dog , `` wait a bit , you scoundrel , you shall pay for this . '' the next morning the wolf send the boar to challenge the dog to come out into the forest so that they might settle the affair . Old Sultan could find no one to stand by he but a cat with only three leg , and as they go out together the poor cat limp along , and at the same time stretch out she tail into the air with pain . the wolf and he friend be already on the spot appoint , but when they see they enemy come they think that he be bring a sabre with he , for they mistake the outstretched tail of the cat for one . and when the poor beast hop on its three leg , they could only think every time that it be pick up a stone to throw at they . so they be both afraid ; the wild boar creep into the under-wood and the wolf jump up a tree . the dog and the cat , when they come up , wonder that there be no one to be see . the wild boar , however , have not be able to hide himself altogether ; and one of he ear be still to be see . whilst the cat be look carefully about , the boar move he ear ; the cat , who think it be a mouse move there , jump upon it and bit it hard . the boar make a fearful noise and run away , cry out , `` the guilty one be up in the tree . '' the dog and cat look up and see the wolf , who be ashamed of have show himself so timid , and make friend with the dog .