ole the tower-keeper . H. C. Andersen `` in the world it be always go up and down -- and now I can not go up any higher ! '' so say Ole the tower-keeper . `` most people have to try both the up and the downs ; and , rightly consider , we all get to be watchmen at last , and look down upon life from a height . '' such be the speech of Ole , my friend , the old tower-keeper , a strange talkative old fellow , who seem to speak out everything that come into he head , and who for all that have many a serious thought deep in he heart . Yes , he be the child of respectable people , and there be even some who say that he be the son of a privy councillor , or that he might have be ; he have study too , and have be assistant teacher and deputy clerk ; but of what service be all that to he ? in those day he live in the clerk 's house , and be to have everything in the house , to be at free quarter , as the say be ; but he be still , so to speak , a fine young gentleman . he want to have he boot clean with patent blacking , and the clerk could only afford ordinary grease ; and upon that point they split -- one speak of stinginess , the other of vanity , and the black become the black cause of enmity between they , and at last they part . this be what he demand of the world in general -- namely , patent blacking -- and he get nothing but grease . accordingly he at last draw back from all man , and become a hermit ; but the church tower be the only place in a great city where hermitage , office , and bread can be find together . so he betake himself up thither , and smoke he pipe as he make he solitary round . he look upward and downward , and have he own thought , and tell in he way of what he read in book and in himself . I often lend he book , good book ; and you may know a man by the company he keep . he love neither the English governess-novels , nor the french one , which he call a mixture of empty wind and raisin-stalks : he want biography and description of the wonder of the world . I visit he at least once a year , generally directly after New Year 's - day , and then he always speak of this and that which the change of the year have put into he head . I will tell the story of three of these visit , and will reproduce he own word whenever I can remember they .