130 one-eye , two-eyes , and three-eyes Brothers Grimm THERE be once a woman who have three daughter , the eldest of whom be call One-eye , because she have only one eye in the middle of she forehead , and the second , two-eyes , because she have two eye like other folk , and the youngest , three-eyes , because she have three eye ; and she third eye be also in the center of she forehead . however , as two-eyes see just as other human being do , she sister and she mother could not endure she . they say to she , `` Thou , with thy two eye , art no better than the common people ; thou dost not belong to we ! '' they push she about , and throw old clothes to she , and give she nothing to eat but what they leave , and do everything that they could to make she unhappy . it come to pass that two-eyes have to go out into the field and tend the goat , but she be still quite hungry , because she sister have give she so little to eat . so she sit down on a ridge and begin to weep , and so bitterly that two stream run down from she eye . and once when she look up in she grief , a woman be stand beside she , who say , `` why art thou weep , little two-eyes ? '' two-eyes answer , `` have I not reason to weep , when I have two eye like other people , and my sister and mother hate I for it , and push I from one corner to another , throw old clothes at I , and give I nothing to eat but the scrap they leave ? to-day they have give I so little that I be still quite hungry . '' then the wise woman say , `` wipe away thy tear , two-eyes , and I will tell thee something to stop thee ever suffer from hunger again ; just say to thy goat , `` Bleat , my little goat , bleat , Cover the table with something to eat , '' and then a clean well-spread little table will stand before thee , with the most delicious food upon it of which thou mayst eat as much as thou art incline for , and when thou hast have enough , and hast no more need of the little table , just say , `` Bleat , bleat , my little goat , I pray , and take the table quite away , '' and then it will vanish again from thy sight . '' Hereupon the wise woman depart . but two-eyes think , `` I must instantly make a trial , and see if what she say be true , for I be far too hungry , '' and she say , `` Bleat , my little goat , bleat , Cover the table with something to eat , '' and scarcely have she speak the word than a little table , cover with a white cloth , be stand there , and on it be a plate with a knife and fork , and a silver spoon ; and the most delicious food be there also , warm and smoking as if it have just come out of the kitchen . then two-eyes say the shortest prayer she know , `` Lord God , be with we always , amen , '' and help herself to some food , and enjoy it . and when she be satisfy , she say , as the wise woman have teach she , `` Bleat , bleat , my little goat , I pray , and take the table quite away , '' and immediately the little table and everything on it be go again . `` that be a delightful way of keep house ! '' thought two-eyes , and be quite glad and happy . in the evening , when she go home with she goat , she find a small earthenware dish with some food , which she sister have set ready for she , but she do not touch it . next day she again go out with she goat , and leave the few bit of broken bread which have be hand to she , lie untouched . the first and second time that she do this , she sister do not remark it at all , but as it happen every time , they do observe it , and say , `` there be something wrong about two-eyes , she always leave she food untasted , and she use to eat up everything that be give she ; she must have discover other way of get food . '' in order that they might learn the truth , they resolve to send one-eye with two-eyes when she go to drive she goat to the pasture , to observe what two-eyes do when she be there , and whether any one bring she anything to eat and drink . so when two-eyes set out the next time , one-eye go to she and say , `` I will go with you to the pasture , and see that the goat be well take care of , and drive where there be food . '' but two-eyes know what be in one-eye 's mind , and drive the goat into high grass and say , `` come , one-eye , we will sit down , and I will sing something to you . '' one-eye sit down and be tire with the unaccustomed walk and the heat of the sun , and two-eyes sing constantly , `` one eye , wakest thou ? one eye , sleepest thou ? '' until One-eye shut she one eye , and fall asleep , and as soon as two-eyes see that one-eye be fast asleep , and could discover nothing , she say , `` Bleat , my little goat , bleat , Cover the table with something to eat , '' and seat herself at she table , and eat and drink until she be satisfy , and then she again cry , `` Bleat , bleat , my little goat , I pray , and take the table quite away , '' and in a instant all be go . two-eyes now awaken one-eye , and say , `` one-eye , you want to take care of the goat , and go to sleep while you be do it , and in the meantime the goat might run all over the world . come , let we go home again . '' so they go home , and again two-eyes let she little dish stand untouched , and one-eye could not tell she mother why she would not eat it , and to excuse herself say , `` I fall asleep when I be out . '' next day the mother say to three-eyes , `` this time thou shalt go and observe if two-eyes eat anything when she be out , and if any one fetch she food and drink , for she must eat and drink in secret . '' so three-eyes go to two-eyes , and say , `` I will go with you and see if the goat be take proper care of , and drive where there be food . '' but two-eyes know what be in three-eyes ' mind , and drive the goat into high grass and say , `` we will sit down , and I will sing something to you , three-eyes . '' three-eyes sit down and be tire with the walk and with the heat of the sun , and two-eyes begin the same song as before , and sing , `` three eye , be you wake ? '' but then , instead of singing , `` three eye , be you sleep ? '' as she ought to have do , she thoughtlessly sing , `` two eye , be you sleep ? '' and sing all the time , `` three eye , be you wake ? two eye , be you sleep ? '' then two of the eye which three-eyes have , shut and fall asleep , but the third , as it have not be name in the song , do not sleep . it be true that Three-eyesS shut it , but only in she cunning , to pretend it be asleep too , but it blink , and could see everything very well . and when two-eyes think that three-eyes be fast asleep , she use she little charm , `` Bleat , my little goat , bleat , Cover the table with something to eat , '' and eat and drink as much as she heart desire , and then order the table to go away again , `` Bleat , bleat , my little goat , I pray , and take the table quite away , '' and three-eyes have see everything . then Two-eyesS come to she , wake she and say , `` have you be asleep , three-eyes ? you be a good care-taker ! come , we will go home . '' and when they get home , two-eyes again do not eat , and three-eyes say to the mother , `` now , I know why that high-minded thing there do not eat . when she be out , she say to the goat , `` Bleat , my little goat , bleat , Cover the table with something to eat , '' and then a little table appear before she cover with the best of food , much better than any we have here , and when she have eat all she want , she say , `` Bleat , bleat , my little goat , I pray , and take the table quite away , '' and all disappear . I watch everything closely . she put two of my eye to sleep by use a certain form of word , but luckily the one in my forehead keep awake . '' then the envious mother cry , `` dost thou want to fare better than we do ? the desire shall pass away , '' and she fetch a butcher 's knife , and thrust it into the heart of the goat , which fall down dead . when two-eyes see that , she go out full of trouble , seat herself on the ridge of grass at the edge of the field , and weep bitter tear . suddenly the wise woman once more stand by she side , and say , `` two-eyes , why art thou weep ? '' `` have I not reason to weep ? '' she answer . `` the goat which cover the table for I every day when I speak you charm , have be kill by my mother , and now I shall again have to bear hunger and want . '' the wise woman say , `` two-eyes , I will give thee a piece of good advice ; ask thy sister to give thee the entrails of the slaughter goat , and bury they in the ground in front of the house , and thy fortune will be make . '' then she vanish , and two-eyes go home and say to she sister , `` dear sister , do give I some part of my goat ; I do not wish for what be good , but give I the entrails . '' then they laugh and say , `` if that be all you want , you can have it . '' so two-eyes take the entrails and bury they quietly in the evening , in front of the house-door , as the wise woman have counsel she to do . next morning , when they all awake , and go to the house-door , there stand a strangely magnificent tree with leaf of silver , and fruit of gold hanging among they , so that in all the wide world there be nothing more beautiful or precious . they do not know how the tree could have come there during the night , but two-eyes see that it have grow up out of the entrails of the goat , for it be stand on the exact spot where she have bury they . then the mother say to one-eye , `` climb up , my child , and gather some of the fruit of the tree for we . '' one-eye climb up , but when she be about to get hold of one of the golden apple , the branch escape from she hand , and that happen each time , so that she could not pluck a single apple , let she do what she might . then say the mother , `` three-eyes , do you climb up ; you with you three eye can look about you better than one-eye . '' one-eye slip down , and three-eyes climb up . three-eyes be not more skilful , and might search as she like , but the golden apple always escape she . at length the mother grow impatient , and climb up herself , but could get hold of the fruit no better than one-eye and three-eyes , for she always clutch empty air . then say two-eyes , `` I will just go up , perhaps I may succeed better . '' the sister cry , `` you indeed , with you two eye , what can you do ? '' but two-eyes climb up , and the golden apple do get out of she way , but come into she hand of they own accord , so that she could pluck they one after the other , and bring a whole apronful down with she . the mother take they away from she , and instead of treat poor two-eyes any better for this , she and one-eye and three-eyes be only envious , because two-eyes alone have be able to get the fruit , and they treat she still more cruelly . it so befall that once when they be all standing together by the tree , a young knight come up . `` Quick , Two-eyes , '' cry the two sister , `` creep under this , and do not disgrace we ! '' and with all speed they turn a empty barrel which be stand close by the tree over poor two-eyes , and they push the golden apple which she have be gather , under it too . when the knight come nearer he be a handsome lord , who stop and admire the magnificent gold and silver tree , and say to the two sister , `` to whom do this fine tree belong ? any one who would bestow one branch of it on I might in return for it ask whatsoever he desire . '' then one-eye and three-eyes reply that the tree belong to they , and that they would give he a branch . they both take great trouble , but they be not able to do it , for the branch and fruit both move away from they every time . then say the knight , `` it be very strange that the tree should belong to you , and that you should still not be able to break a piece off . '' they again assert that the tree be they property . whilst they be say so , two-eyes roll out a couple of golden apple from under the barrel to the foot of the knight , for she be vex with one-eye and three-eyes , for not speak the truth . when the knight see the apple he be astonish , and ask where they come from . one-eye and three-eyes answer that they have another sister , who be not allow to show herself , for she have only two eye like any common person . the knight , however , desire to see she , and cry , `` two-eyes , come forth . '' then two-eyes , quite comfort , come from beneath the barrel , and the knight be surprise at she great beauty , and say , `` Thou , Two-eyes , canst certainly break off a branch from the tree for I . '' `` yes , '' reply Two-eyes , `` that I certainly shall be able to do , for the tree belong to I . '' and she climb up , and with the greatest ease break off a branch with beautiful silver leaf and golden fruit , and give it to the knight . then say the knight , `` two-eyes , what shall I give thee for it ? '' `` Alas ! '' answer two-eyes , `` I suffer from hunger and thirst , grief and want , from early morning till late night ; if you would take I with you , and deliver I from these thing , I should be happy . '' so the knight lift two-eyes on to he horse , and take she home with he to he father 's castle , and there he give she beautiful clothes , and meat and drink to she heart 's content , and as he love she so much he marry she , and the wedding be solemnize with great rejoicing . when two-eyes be thus carry away by the handsome knight , she two sister grudge she good fortune in downright earnest . `` the wonderful tree , however , still remain with we , '' think they , `` and even if we can gather no fruit from it , still every one will stand still and look at it , and come to we and admire it . who know what good thing may be in store for we ? '' but next morning , the tree have vanish , and all they hope be at a end . and when two-eyes look out of the window of she own little room , to she great delight it be stand in front of it , and so it have follow she . two-eyes live a long time in happiness . once two poor woman come to she in she castle , and beg for alms . she look in they face , and recognize she sister , one-eye , and three-eyes , who have fall into such poverty that they have to wander about and beg they bread from door to door . two-eyes , however , make they welcome , and be kind to they , and take care of they , so that they both with all they heart repent the evil that they have do they sister in they youth .