3 we Lady 's Child BrothersS Grimm Hard by a great forest dwell a wood-cutter with he wife , who have a only child , a little girl three year old . they be so poor , however , that they no longer have daily bread , and do not know how to get food for she . one morning the wood-cutter go out sorrowfully to he work in the forest , and while he be cut wood , suddenly there stand before he a tall and beautiful woman with a crown of shine star on she head , who say to he , `` I be the Virgin Mary , mother of the child Jesus . Thou art poor and needy , bring thy child to I , I will take she with I and be she mother , and care for she . '' the wood-cutter obeyed , bring he child , and give she to the Virgin Mary , who take she up to heaven with she . there the child fare well , eat sugar-cakes , and drank sweet milk , and she clothes be of gold , and the little angel play with she . and when she be fourteen year of age , the Virgin Mary call she one day and say , `` dear child , I be about to make a long journey , so take into thy keep the key of the thirteen door of heaven . twelve of these thou mayest open , and behold the glory which be within they , but the thirteenth , to which this little key belong , be forbid thee . beware of open it , or thou wilt bring misery on thyself . '' the girl promise to be obedient , and when the Virgin Mary be go , she begin to examine the dwelling of the kingdom of heaven . each day she open one of they , until she have make the round of the twelve . in each of they sit one of the ApostlesS in the midst of a great light , and she rejoice in all the magnificence and splendor , and the little angel who always accompany she rejoice with she . then the forbid door alone remain , and she feel a great desire to know what could be hide behind it , and say to the angel , `` I will not quite open it , and I will not go inside it , but I will unlock it so that we can just see a little through the opening . '' `` oh no , '' say the little angel , `` that would be a sin . the Virgin Mary have forbid it , and it might easily cause thy unhappiness . '' then she be silent , but the desire in she heart be not still , but gnaw there and torment she , and let she have no rest . and once when the angel have all go out , she think , `` now I be quite alone , and I could peep in . if I do it , no one will ever know . '' she seek out the key , and when she have get it in she hand , she put it in the lock , and when she have put it in , she turn it round as well . then the door spring open , and she see there the trinity sit in fire and splendor . she stay there awhile , and look at everything in amazement ; then she touch the light a little with she finger , and she finger become quite golden . immediately a great fear fall on she . she shut the door violently , and run away . she terror too would not quit she , let she do what she might , and she heart beat continually and would not be still ; the gold too stay on she finger , and would not go away , let she rub it and wash it never so much . it be not long before the Virgin Mary come back from she journey . she call the girl before she , and ask to have the key of heaven back . when the maiden give she the bunch , the Virgin look into she eye and say , `` hast thou not open the thirteenth door also ? '' `` no , '' she reply . then she lay she hand on the girl 's heart , and feel how it beat and beat , and see right well that she have disobey she order and have open the door . then she say once again , `` Art thou certain that thou hast not do it ? '' `` yes , '' say the girl , for the second time . then she perceive the finger which have become golden from touch the fire of heaven , and see well that the child have sin , and say for the third time `` hast thou not do it ? '' `` no , '' say the girl for the third time . then say the Virgin Mary , `` Thou hast not obey I , and besides that thou hast lie , thou art no longer worthy to be in heaven . '' then the girl fall into a deep sleep , and when she awake she lay on the earth below , and in the midst of a wilderness . she want to cry out , but she could bring forth no sound . she spring up and want to run away , but whithersoever she turn herself , she be continually hold back by thick hedge of thorn through which she could not break . in the desert , in which she be imprison , there stand a old hollow tree , and this have to be she dwelling-place . Into this she creep when night come , and here she sleep . here , too , she find a shelter from storm and rain , but it be a miserable life , and bitterly do she weep when she remember how happy she have be in heaven , and how the angel have play with she . root and wild berry be she only food , and for these she seek as far as she could go . in the autumn she pick up the fall nut and leaf , and carry they into the hole . the nut be she food in winter , and when snow and ice come , she creep amongst the leaf like a poor little animal that she might not freeze . before long she clothes be all tear , and one bit of they after another fall off she . as soon , however , as the sun shone warm again , she go out and sit in front of the tree , and she long hair cover she on all side like a mantle . thus she sit year after year , and feel the pain and the misery of the world . one day , when the tree be once more clothe in fresh green , the King of the country be hunting in the forest , and follow a roe , and as it have flee into the thicket which shut in this part of the forest , he get off he horse , tear the bush asunder , and cut himself a path with he sword . when he have at last force he way through , he see a wonderfully beautiful maiden sit under the tree ; and she sit there and be entirely cover with she golden hair down to she very foot . he stand still and look at she full of surprise , then he speak to she and say , `` who art thou ? why art thou sit here in the wilderness ? '' but she give no answer , for she could not open she mouth . the King continue , `` wilt thou go with I to my castle ? '' then she just nod she head a little . the King take she in he arm , carry she to he horse , and ride home with she , and when he reach the royal castle he cause she to be dress in beautiful garment , and give she all thing in abundance . although she could not speak , she be still so beautiful and charming that he begin to love she with all he heart , and it be not long before he marry she . after a year or so have pass , the Queen bring a son into the world . Thereupon the Virgin Mary appear to she in the night when she lay in she bed alone , and say , `` if thou wilt tell the truth and confess that thou didst unlock the forbid door , I will open thy mouth and give thee back thy speech , but if thou perseverest in thy sin , and deniest obstinately , I will take thy new-born child away with I . '' then the queen be permit to answer , but she remain hard , and say , `` no , I do not open the forbid door ; '' and the Virgin Mary take the new-born child from she arm , and vanish with it . next morning when the child be not to be find , it be whisper among the people that the Queen be a man-eater , and have kill she own child . she hear all this and could say nothing to the contrary , but the King would not believe it , for he love she so much . when a year have go by the Queen again bear a son , and in the night the Virgin Mary again come to she , and say , `` if thou wilt confess that thou openedst the forbid door , I will give thee thy child back and untie thy tongue ; but if you continuest in sin and deniest it , I will take away with I this new child also . '' then the Queen again say , `` no , I do not open the forbid door ; '' and the Virgin take the child out of she arm , and away with she to heaven . next morning , when this child also have disappear , the people declare quite loudly that the Queen have devour it , and the King 's councillor demand that she should be bring to justice . the King , however , love she so dearly that he would not believe it , and command the councillor under pain of death not to say any more about it . the following year the Queen give birth to a beautiful little daughter , and for the third time the Virgin Mary appear to she in the night and say , `` follow I . '' she take the Queen by the hand and lead she to heaven , and show she there she two eldest child , who smile at she , and be play with the ball of the world . when the Queen rejoice thereat , the Virgin Mary say , `` be thy heart not yet soften ? if thou wilt own that thou openedst the forbid door , I will give thee back thy two little son . '' but for the third time the Queen answer , `` no , I do not open the forbid door . '' then the Virgin let she sink down to earth once more , and take from she likewise she third child . next morning , when the loss be report abroad , all the people cry loudly , `` the Queen be a man-eater . she must be judge , '' and the King be no longer able to restrain he councillor . Thereupon a trial be hold , and as she could not answer , and defend herself , she be condemn to be burnt alive . the wood be get together , and when she be fast bind to the stake , and the fire begin to burn round about she , the hard ice of pride melt , she heart be move by repentance , and she think , `` if I could but confess before my death that I open the door . '' then she voice come back to she , and she cry out loudly , `` yes , Mary , I do it ; '' and straight-way rain fall from the sky and extinguish the flame of fire , and a light break forth above she , and the Virgin Mary descend with the two little son by she side , and the new-born daughter in she arm . she speak kindly to she , and say , `` he who repent he sin and acknowledge it , be forgive . '' then she give she the three child , untie she tongue , and grant she happiness for she whole life .