PRINCE BEDER and the PRINCESS GIAUHARA . Arabian Writer Young Prince Beder be bring up and educate in the palace under the care of the King and Queen of Persia . he give they great pleasure as he advance in year by he agreeable manners , and by the justness of whatever he say ; King Saleh he uncle , the queen he grandmother , and the princess he relation , come from time to time to see he . he be easily teach to read and write , and be instruct in all the science that become a prince of he rank . when he arrive at the age of fifteen he be very wise and prudent . the king , who have almost from he cradle discover in he these virtue so necessary for a monarch , and who moreover begin to perceive the infirmity of old age come upon himself every day , would not wait till death give he possession of the throne , but purpose to resign it to he . he have no great difficulty to make he council consent to it ; and the people hear this with so much the more joy , because they consider Prince Beder worthy to govern they . they see that he treat all mankind with that goodness which invite they to approach he ; that he hear favourably all who have anything to say to he ; that he answer everybody with a goodness that be peculiar to he ; and that he refuse nobody anything that have the least appearance of justice . the day for the ceremony be appoint . in the midst of the whole assembly , which be larger than usual , the King of Persia , then sit on he throne , come down from it , take the crown from off he head , put it on that of Prince Beder , and have seat he in he place , kiss he hand , as a token that he resign he authority to he . after which he take he place among the crowd of vizier and emir below the throne . Hereupon the vizier , emir , and other principal officer , come immediately and throw themselves at the new king 's foot , take each the oath of fidelity accord to they rank . then the grand vizier make a report of various important matter , on which the young king give judgment with admirable prudence and sagacity that surprise all the council . he next turn out several governor convict of mal-administration , and put other in they place , with wonderful and just discernment . he at length leave the council , accompany by the late king he father , and go to see he mother , Queen Gulnare . the queen no sooner see he come with he crown upon he head , than she run to he , and embrace he with tenderness , wish he a long and prosperous reign . the first year of he reign King Beder acquit himself of all he royal function with great care . above all , he take care to inform himself of the state of he affair , and all that might in any way contribute towards the happiness of he people . next year , have leave the administration to he council , under the direction of the old king he father , he go out of he capital , under pretext of divert himself with hunting ; but he real intention be to visit all the province of he kingdom , that he might reform all abuse there , establish good order and discipline everywhere , and take from all ill-minded prince , he neighbor , any opportunity of attempt any thing against the security and tranquillity of he subject , by show himself on he frontier . it require no less than a whole year for this young king to carry out he plan . soon after he return , the old king he father fall so dangerously ill that he know at once he should never recover . he wait for he last moment with great tranquillity , and he only care be to recommend the minister and other lord of he son 's court to remain faithful to he : and there be not one but willingly renew he oath as freely as at first . he die , at length , to the great grief of King Beder and Queen Gulnare , who cause he corpse to be bear to a stately mausoleum , worthy of he rank and dignity . the funeral end , King Beder find no difficulty in comply with that ancient custom in Persia to mourn for the dead a whole month , and not to be see by anybody during all that time . he would have mourn the death of he father he whole life , have it be right for a great prince thus to abandon himself to grief . during this interval the queen , mother to Queen Gulnare , and King Saleh , together with the princess they relation , arrive at the persian court , and share they affliction , before they offer any consolation . when the month be expire , the king could not refuse admittance to the grand vizier and the other lord of he court , who beseech he to lay aside he mourn , to show himself to he subject , and take upon he the administration of affair as before . he show such great reluctance at they request , that the grand vizier be force to take upon himself to say to he ; ` Sir , neither we tear nor yours be capable of restore life to the good king you father , though we should lament he all we day . he have undergo the common law of all man , which subject they to pay the indispensable tribute of death . yet we can not say absolutely that he be dead , since we see he in you sacred person . he do not himself doubt , when he be die , but that he should revive in you , and to you majesty it belong to show that he be not deceive . ' King Beder could no longer oppose such pressing entreaty : he lay aside he mourn ; and after he have resume the royal habit and ornament , he begin to provide for the necessity of he kingdom and subject with the same care as before he father 's death . he acquit himself with universal approbation : and as he be exact in maintain the ordinance of he predecessor , the people do not feel they have change they sovereign . King Saleh , who have return to he dominion in the sea with the queen he mother and the princess , no sooner see that King Beder have resume the government , at the end of the month than he come alone to visit he ; and King Beder and Queen Gulnare be overjoy to see he . one evening when they rise from table , they talk of various matter . King Saleh begin with the praise of the king he nephew , and express to the queen he sister how glad he be to see he govern so prudently , all of which have acquire he great reputation , not among he neighbor only , but more remote prince . King Beder , who could not bear to hear himself so well speak of , and not be willing , through good manners , to interrupt the king he uncle , turn on one side to sleep , lean he head against a cushion that be behind he . ` sister , ' say King Saleh , ` I wonder you have not think of marry he ere this : if I mistake not , he be in he twentieth year ; and , at that age , no prince like he ought to be suffer to be without a wife . I will think of a wife for he myself , since you will not , and marry he to some princess of we lower world that may be worthy of he . ' ` brother , ' reply Queen Gulnare , ` I have never think of it to this very moment , and I be glad you have speak of it to I . I like you propose one of we princess ; and I desire you to name one so beautiful and accomplished that the king my son may be oblige to love she . ' ` I know one that will suit , ' reply King Saleh , softly ; ` but I see many difficulty to be surmount , not on the lady 's part , as I hope , but on that of she father . I need only mention to you the Princess Giauhara , daughter of the king of Samandal . ' ` what ? ' reply Queen Gulnare , ` be not the Princess Giauhara yet marry ? I remember to have see she before I leave you palace ; she be then about eighteen month old , and surprisingly beautiful , and must need be the wonder of the world . the few year she be older than the king my son ought not to prevent we from do we utmost to bring it about . let I but know the difficulty that be to be surmount , and we will surmount they . ' ` sister , ' reply King Saleh , ` the greatest difficulty be , that the King of Samandal be insupportably vain , look upon all other as he inferior : it be not likely we shall easily get he to enter into this alliance . for my part , I will go to he in person , and demand of he the princess he daughter ; and , in case he refuse she , we will address ourselves elsewhere , where we shall be more favourably hear . for this reason , as you may perceive , ' add he , ` it be as well for the king my nephew not to know anything of we design , lest he should fall in love with the Princess Giauhara , till we have get the consent of the King of Samandal , in case , after all , we should not be able to obtain she for he . ' they discourse a little longer upon this point , and , before they part , agree that King Saleh should forthwith return to he own dominion , and demand the Princess Giauhara of the King of Samandal she father , for the King of Persia he nephew . now King Beder have hear what they say , and he immediately fall in love with the Princess Giauhara without have even see she , and he lay awake think all night . next day King Saleh take leave of Queen Gulnare and the king he nephew . the young king , who know the king he uncle would not have depart so soon but to go and promote he happiness without loss of time , change color when he hear he mention he departure . he resolve to desire he uncle to bring the princess away with he : but only ask he to stay with he one day more , that they might hunt together . the day for hunting be fix , and King Beder have many opportunity of be alone with he uncle , but he have not the courage to open he mouth . in the heat of the chase , when King Saleh be separate from he , and not one of he officer and attendant be near , he alight near a rivulet ; and have tie he horse to a tree , which , with several other grow along the bank , afford a very please shade , he lay himself down on the grass . he remain a good while absorb in thought , without speak a word . King Saleh , in the meantime , miss the king he nephew , begin to be much concern to know what have become of he . he therefore leave he company to go in search of he , and at length perceive he at a distance . he have observe the day before , and more plainly that day , that he be not so lively as he use to be ; and that if he be ask a question , he either answer not at all , or nothing to the purpose . as soon as King Saleh see he lie in that disconsolate posture , he immediately guess he have hear what pass between he and Queen Gulnare . he hereupon alight at some distance from he , and have tie he horse to a tree , come upon he so softly , that he hear he say to himself : ` amiable princess of the kingdom of Samandal , I would this moment go and offer you my heart , if I know where to find you . ' King Saleh would hear no more ; he advance immediately , and show himself to King Beder . ` from what I see , nephew , ' say he , ` you hear what the queen you mother and I say the other day of the Princess Giauhara . it be not we intention you should have know anything , and we think you be asleep . ' ` my dear uncle , ' reply King Beder , ` I hear every word , but be ashamed to disclose to you my weakness . I beseech you to pity I , and not wait to procure I the consent of the divine Giauhara till you have gain the consent of the King of Samandal that I may marry he daughter . ' these word of the King of Persia greatly embarrass King Saleh . he represent to he how difficult it be , and that he could not well do it without carry he along with he ; which might be of dangerous consequence , since he presence be so absolutely necessary in he kingdom . he beg he to wait . but these reason be not sufficient to satisfy the king of Persia . ` Cruel Uncle , ' say he , ` I find you do not love I so much as you pretend , and that you have rather see I die than grant the first request I ever make you . ' ` I be ready to convince you majesty , ' reply King Saleh , ` that I would do anything to serve you ; but as for carry you along with I , I can not do that till I have speak to the queen you mother . what would she say of you and I ? if she consent , I be ready to do all you would have I , and I will join my entreaty to yours . ' ` if you do really love I , ' reply the king of Persia impatiently , ` as you would have I believe you do , you must return to you kingdom immediately , and carry I along with you . ' King Saleh , find himself oblige to yield to he nephew , draw from he finger a ring , on which be engraven the same mysterious name that be upon Solomon 's seal , that have work so many wonder by they virtue . ` here , take this ring , ' say he , ` put it upon you finger , and fear neither the water of the sea , nor they depth . ' the King of Persia take the ring , and when he have put it on he finger , King Saleh say to he , ` do as I do . ' at the same time they both mount lightly up into the air , and make towards the sea which be not far distant , whereinto they both plunge . the sea-king be not long in get to he palace with the King of Persia , whom he immediately carry to the queen 's apartment , and present he to she . the King of Persia kiss the queen he grandmother 's hand , and she embrace he with great joy . ` I do not ask you how you be , ' say she to he ; ` I see you be very well , and I be rejoice at it ; but I desire to know how be my daughter , you mother , Queen Gulnare ? ' the King of Persia tell she the queen he mother be in perfect health . then the queen present he to the princess ; and while he be in conversation with they , she leave he , and go with King Saleh , who tell she how the king of Persia be fall in love with the Princess Giauhara , and that he have bring he along with he , without be able to hinder it . although King Saleh be , to do he justice , perfectly innocent , yet the queen could hardly forgive he indiscretion in mention the Princess Giauhara before he . ` you imprudence be not to be forgive , ' say she to he : ` can you think that the King of Samandal , whose character be so well know , will have greater consideration for you than the many other king he have refuse he daughter to with such evident contempt ? would you have he send you away with the same confusion ? ' ` Madam , ' reply King Saleh , ` I have already tell you it be contrary to my intention that the king , my nephew , should hear what I relate of the Princess Giauhara to the queen my sister . the fault be commit ; I will therefore do all that I can to remedy it . I hope , madam , you will approve of my resolution to go myself and wait upon the King of Samandal , with a rich present of precious stone , and demand of he the princess , he daughter , for the King of Persia , you grandson . I have some reason to believe he will not refuse I , but will be please at a alliance with one of the greatest potentate of the earth . ' ` it be to have be wish , ' reply the queen , ` that we have not be under a necessity of make this demand , since the success of we attempt be not so certain as we could desire ; but since my grandson 's peace and content depend upon it , I freely give my consent . but , above all , I charge you , since you well know the temper of the King of Samandal , that you take care to speak to he with due respect , and in a manner that can not possibly offend he . ' the queen prepare the present herself , compose of diamond , ruby , emerald , and string of pearl ; all of which she put into a very neat and very rich box . next morning , King Saleh take leave of she majesty and the King of Persia , and depart with a chosen and small troop of officer and other attendant . he soon arrive at the kingdom and the palace of the King of Samandal , who rise from he throne as soon as he perceive he ; and King Saleh , forget he character for some moment , though know whom he have to deal with , prostrate himself at he foot , wish he the accomplishment of all he desire . the King of Samandal immediately stoop to raise he up , and after he have place he on he left hand , he tell he he be welcome , and ask he if there be anything he could do to serve he . ` Sir , ' answer King Saleh , ` though I should have no other motive than that of pay my respects to the most potent , most prudent , and most valiant prince in the world , feeble would be my expression how much I honor you majesty . ' have , speak these word , he take the box of jewel from one of he servant and have open it , present it to the king , implore he to accept it for he sake . ` Prince , ' reply the King of Samandal , ` you would not make I such a present unless you have a request to propose . if there be anything in my power , you may freely command it , and I shall feel the greatest pleasure in grant it . speak , and tell I frankly wherein I can serve you . ' ` I must own , ' reply King Saleh , ` I have a boon to ask of you majesty ; and I shall take care to ask nothing but what be in you power to grant . the thing depend so absolutely on yourself , that it would be to no purpose to ask it of any other . I ask it then with all possible earnestness , and I beg of you not to refuse it I . ' ` if it be so , ' reply the King of Samandal , ` you have nothing to do but acquaint I what it be , and you shall see after what manner I can oblige when it be in my power . ' ` Sir , ' say King Saleh , ` after the confidence you majesty have be please to encourage I to put in you goodwill , I will not dissemble any longer . I come to beg of you to honor we house with you alliance by the marriage of you honorable daughter the Princess Giauhara , and to strengthen the good understanding that have so long subsist between we two crown . ' at these word the king of samandal burst out laugh fall back in he throne against a cushion that support he , and with a imperious and scornful air , say to King Saleh : ` King Saleh , I have always hitherto thought you a prince of great sense ; but what you say convince I how much I be mistake . tell I , I beseech you , where be you discretion , when you imagine to yourself so great a absurdity as you have just now propose to I ? could you conceive a thought only of aspire in marriage to a princess , the daughter of so great and powerful a king as I be ? you ought to have consider better beforehand the great distance between we , and not run the risk of lose in a moment the esteem I always have for you person . ' King Saleh be extremely nettle at this affronting , answer , and have much ado to restrain he resentment ; however , he reply , with all possible moderation , ` God reward you majesty as you deserve ! I have the honor to inform you , I do not demand the princess you daughter in marriage for myself ; have I do so you majesty and the princess ought to have be so far from be offend , that you should have think it a honor do to both . you majesty well know I be one of the king of the sea as well as yourself ; that the king , my ancestor , yield not in antiquity to any other royal family ; and that the kingdom I inherit from they be no less potent and flourishing than it have ever be . if you majesty have not interrupt I , you have soon understand that the favor I ask of you be not for myself , but for the young king of Persia , my nephew , whose power and grandeur , no less than he personal good quality , can not be unknown to you . everybody acknowledge the Princess Giauhara to be the most beautiful person in the world : but it be no less true that the young king of Persia , my nephew , be the best and most accomplished prince on the land . thus the favor that be ask be likely to redound both to the honor of you majesty and the princess you daughter , you ought not to doubt that you consent to a alliance so equal will be unanimously approve in all the kingdom of the sea . the princess be worthy of the King of Persia , and the King of Persia be no less worthy of she . no king or prince in the world can dispute she with he . ' the King of Samandal would not have let King Saleh go on so long after this rate , have not the rage he put he in deprive he of all power of speech . it be some time before he could find he tongue , so much be he transport with passion . at length , however , he break into outrageous language , unworthy of a great king . ` Dog ! ' cry he , ` dare you talk to I after this manner , and so much as mention my daughter 's name in my presence ? can you think the son of you sister Gulnare worthy to come in competition with my daughter ? who be you ? who be you father ? who be you sister ? and who you nephew ? be not he father a dog , and a son of a dog , like you ? guard , seize the insolent wretch , and cut off he head . ' the few officer that be about the King of Samandal be immediately go to obey he order , when King Saleh , who be nimble and vigorous , get from they before they could draw they sabre ; and have reach the palace gate , he there find a thousand man of he relation and friend , well arm and equip , who have just arrive . the queen he mother have consider the small number of attendant he take with he , and , moreover , foresee the bad reception he would probably have from the King of Samandal , have send these troops to protect and defend he in case of danger , order they to make haste . those of he relation who be at the head of this troop have reason to rejoice at they seasonable arrival , when they behold he and he attendant come run in great disorder and pursued . ` Sir , ' cry he friend , the moment he join they , ` what be the matter ? we be ready to revenge you : you need only command we . ' King Saleh relate he case to they in as few word as he could , and put himself at the head of a large troop , he , while some seize on the gate , re-entered the palace as before . the few officer and guard who have pursue he be soon disperse , he re-entered the king of Samandal 's apartment , who , be abandon by he attendant , be soon seize . King Saleh leave sufficient guard to secure he person , and then go from apartment to apartment , in search of the Princess Giauhara . but that princess , on the first alarm , have , together with she woman , spring up to the surface of the sea , and escape to a desert island . while this be pass in the palace of the King of Samandal , those of King Saleh 's attendant who have flee at the first menace of that king put the queen mother into terrible consternation upon relate the danger she son be in . King Beder , who be by at that time , be the more concerned , in that he look upon himself as the principal author of all the mischief : therefore , not care to abide in the queen 's presence any longer , he dart up from the bottom of the sea ; and , not know how to find he way to the kingdom of Persia , he happen to light on the island where the Princess Giauhara have take refuge . the prince , not a little disturbed in mind , go and seat himself under the shade of a large tree . Whilst he be endeavor to recover himself , he hear somebody talk , but be too far off to understand what be say . he arise and advance softly towards the place whence the sound come , where , among the branch , he perceive a most beautiful lady . ` doubtless , ' say he , within himself , stop and consider she with great attention , ` this must be the Princess Giauhara , whom fear have oblige to abandon she father 's palace . ' this say , he come forward , and approach the princess with profound reverence . ` Madam , ' say he , ` a greater happiness could not have befall I than this opportunity to offer you my most humble service . I beseech you , therefore , madam , to accept they , it be impossible that a lady in this solitude should not want assistance . ' ` true , my lord , ' reply Giauhara very sorrowfully , ` it be not a little extraordinary for a lady of my rank to be in this situation . I be a princess , daughter of the King of Samandal , and my name be Giauhara . I be in my father 's palace , when all of a sudden I hear a dreadful noise : news be immediately bring I that King Saleh , I know not for what reason , have force he way into the palace , seize the king my father , and murder all the guard that make any resistance . I have only time to save myself , and escape hither from he violence . ' at these word of the princess , King Beder begin to be concern that he have quit he grandmother so hastily , without stay to hear from she a explanation of the news that have be bring she . but he be , on the other hand , overjoy to find that the king , he uncle , have render himself master of the King of Samandal 's person , not doubt but that he would consent to give up the princess for he liberty . ` adorable princess , ' continue he , ` you concern be most just , but it be easy to put a end both to that and to you father 's captivity . you will agree with I when I tell you that I be Beder , King of Persia , and King Saleh be my uncle ; I assure you , madam , he have no design to seize upon the king you father 's dominion ; he only intent be to obtain he consent that I may have the honor and happiness of be he son-in-law . I have already give my heart to you , and now , far from repent of what I have do , I beg of you to be assure that I will love you as long as I live . permit I , then , beauteous princess ! to have the honor to go and present you to the king my uncle ; and the king you father shall no sooner have consent to we marriage , than King Saleh will leave he sovereign of he dominion as before . ' this declaration of King Beder do not produce the effect he expect . when the princess hear from he own mouth that he have be the occasion of the ill-treatment she father have suffer , of the grief and fright she have endure , and especially the necessity she be reduce to of fly she country , she look upon he as a enemy with whom she ought to have nothing whatever to do . King Beder , believe himself arrive at the very pinnacle of happiness , stretch forth he hand , and take that of the princess ' stoop down to kiss it , when she , push he back , say , ` Wretch , quit that form of a man , and take that of a white bird , with a red bill and foot . ' upon she pronounce these word , King Beder be immediately change into a bird of that sort , to he great surprise and mortification . ` take he , ' say she to one of she woman , ` and carry he to the Dry Island . ' this island be only one frightful rock , where there be not a drop of water to be have . the waiting-woman take the bird , and in execute she princess 's order have compassion on King Beder 's destiny . ` it would be a great pity , ' say she to herself , ` to let a prince , so worthy to live , die of hunger and thirst . the princess , so good and gentle , will , it may be , repent of this cruel order when she come to herself : it be better that I carry he to a place where he may die a natural death . ' she accordingly carry he to a well-frequented island , and leave he in a charming plain , plant with all sort of fruit tree , and water by several rivulet . let we return to King Saleh . after he have seek a good while for the Princess Giauhara , and order other to seek for she , to no purpose , he cause the King of Samandal to be shut up in he own palace , under a strong guard ; and have give the necessary order for govern the kingdom in he absence , he return to give the queen he mother a account of what he have do . the first thing he ask upon he arrival be of the whereabouts of the king he nephew , and he learn with great surprise and vexation that he have disappear . ` news be bring I , ' say the queen , ` of the danger you be in at the palace of the King of Samandal , whilst I be give order to send other troops to avenge you , he disappear . he must have be frighten at hearing of you be in so great danger , and do not think himself in sufficient safety with we . ' this news exceedingly afflict King Saleh , who now repent of he be so easily work upon by King Beder as to carry he away with he without he mother 's consent . Whilst he be in this suspense about he nephew , he leave he kingdom under the administration of he mother , and go to govern that of the King of Samandal , whom he continue to keep under great vigilance , though with all due respect to he rank . the same day that King Saleh return to the kingdom of Samandal , Queen Gulnare , mother to King Beder , arrive at the court of the queen she mother . the princess be not at all surprise to find she son do not return the same day he set out , it be not uncommon for he to go further than he propose in the heat of the chase ; but when she see that he return neither the next day , nor the day after , she begin to be alarm . this alarm be increase when the officer , who have accompany the king , and be oblige to return after they have for a long time seek in vain for both he and he uncle , come and tell she majesty they must of necessity have come to some harm , or be together in some place which they could not guess , since they could hear no tiding of they . they horse , indeed , they have find , but as for they person , they know not where to look for they . the queen , hear this , have resolve to dissemble and conceal she affliction , bid the officer to search once more with they utmost diligence ; but in the mean time , say nothing to anybody , she plunge into the sea , to satisfy herself as to the suspicion she have that King Saleh must have carry away he nephew along with he . this great queen would have be more affectionately receive by the queen she mother , have she not , upon first sight of she , guess the occasion of she coming . ` daughter , ' say she , ` I plainly perceive you be not come hither to visit I ; you come to inquire after the king you son ; and the only news I can tell you will augment both you grief and mine . I no sooner see he arrive in we territory , than I rejoice ; yet , when I come to understand he have come away without you knowledge , I begin to share with you the concern you must need feel . ' then she relate to she with what zeal King Saleh go to demand the Princess Giauhara in marriage for King Beder , and what have happen , till she son disappear . ' I have send diligently after he , ' add she , ` and the king my son , who be but just go to govern the kingdom of Samandal , have do all that lay in he power . all we endeavor have hitherto prove unsuccessful , but we must hope nevertheless to see he again , perhaps when we least expect it . ' Queen Gulnare be not satisfy with this hope ; she look upon the king she dear son as lose , and lament he bitterly , lay all the blame upon the king he uncle . the queen she mother make she consider the necessity of not yield too much to she grief . ` the king you brother , ' say she , ` ought not , it be true , to have talk to you so imprudently about that marriage , nor ever have consent to carry away the king my grandson , without acquaint you first ; yet , since it be not certain that the King of Persia be absolutely lose , you ought to neglect nothing to preserve he kingdom for he : lose , then , no more time , but return to you capital ; you presence there will be necessary , and it will not be hard for you to preserve the public peace , by cause it to be publish that the King of Persia be go to visit he grandmother . ' Queen Gulnare yield . she take leave of the queen she mother , and be back in the palace of the capital of Persia before she have be miss . she immediately despatch person to recall the officer she have send after the king , and to tell they she know where he majesty be , and that they should soon see he again . she also govern with the prime minister and council as quietly as if the king have be present . to return to King Beder , whom the Princess Giauhara 's waiting-woman have carry and leave in the island before mention ; that monarch be not a little surprised when he find himself alone , and under the form of a bird . he feel yet more unhappy that he know not where he be , nor in what part of the world the kingdom of Persia lay . he be force to remain where he be , and live upon such food as bird of he kind be wont to eat , and to pass the night on a tree . a few day after , a peasant that be skilled in take bird with net chance to come to the place where he be ; when perceive so fine a bird , the like of which he have never see before , he begin greatly to rejoice . he employ all he art to catch he , and at length succeed . overjoy at so great a prize , which he look upon as of more worth than all the other bird , because so rare , he shut it up in a cage , and carry it to the city . as soon as he be come into the market , a citizen stop he , and ask he how much he want for that bird . instead of answering , the peasant ask the citizen what he would do with he in case he should buy he ? ` what wouldst thou have I to do with he , ' answer the citizen , ` but roast and eat he ? ' ` if that be the case , ' reply the peasant , ` I suppose you would think I very well pay if you give I the smallest piece of silver for he . I set a much higher value upon he , and you should not have he for a piece of gold . although I be advance in year , I never see such a bird in my life . I intend to make a present of he to the king ; he will know the value of he better than you . ' without stay any longer in the market , the peasant go directly to the palace , and place himself exactly before the king 's apartment . he majesty , be at a window where he could see all that pass in the court , no sooner cast he eye on this beautiful bird , than he send a officer to buy it for he . the officer , go to the peasant , ask he how much he want for that bird . ` if it be for he majesty , ' answer the peasant , ` I humbly beg of he to accept it of I as a present , and I desire you to carry it to he . ' the officer take the bird to the king , who find it so great a rarity that he order the same officer to take ten piece of gold , and carry they to the peasant , who depart very well satisfied . the king order the bird to be put into a magnificent cage , and give it seed and water in rich vessel . he majesty be then ready to go hunting , have not time to consider the bird , therefore have it bring to he as soon as he come back . the officer bring the cage , and the king , that he might better see the bird , take it out himself , and perch it upon he hand . look earnestly at it , he ask the officer if he have see it eat . ` Sir , ' reply the officer , ` you majesty may observe the vessel with he food be still full , and he have not touch any of it . ' then the king order he meat of various sort , that he might take what he like best . the table be spread , and dinner serve up just as the king have give these order , the bird , flap he wing , hop off the king 's hand , and fly on to the table , where he begin to peck the bread and victuals , sometimes on one plate , and sometimes on another . the king be so surprised , that he immediately send the officer to desire the queen to come and see this wonder . the officer relate it to she majesty , and she come forthwith : but she no sooner see the bird , than she cover she face with she veil , and would have retire . the king , surprise at she proceeding , ask the reason of it . ` Sir , ' answer the queen , ` you majesty will no longer be surprise when you understand that this bird be not , as you take it , a bird , but a man . ' ` Madam , ' say the king , more astonished than before , ` you be make fun of I ; you shall never persuade I that a bird can be a man . ' ` Sir , ' reply the queen , ` far be it from I to make fun of you majesty ; nothing be more certain than what I have have the honor to tell you . I can assure you majesty it be the king of Persia , name Beder , son of the celebrated Gulnare , princess of one of the largest kingdom of the sea , nephew of Saleh , king of that kingdom , and grandson of Queen Farasche , mother of Gulnare and Saleh ; and it be the Princess Giauhara , daughter of the King of Samandal , who thus metamorphose he into a bird . ' that the king might no longer doubt of what she affirm , she tell he the whole story , how and for what reason the Princess Giauhara , have thus revenge herself for the ill-treatment of King Saleh towards the king of Samandal , she father . the king have less difficulty in believe this assertion of the queen in that he know she to be a skilful magician , one of the greatest in the world . and as she know everything which take place , he be always by she means timely inform of the design of the king he neighbor against he , and prevent they . he majesty have compassion on the King of Persia , and earnestly besought he queen to break the enchantment , that he might return to he own form . the queen consent to it with great willingness . ` Sir , ' say she to the king , ` be please to take the bird into you room , and I will show you a king worthy of the consideration you have for he . ' the bird , which have cease eating , and attend to what the king and queen say , would not give he majesty the trouble to take he , but hop into the room before he ; and the queen come in soon after , with a vessel full of water in she hand . she pronounce over the vessel some word unknown to the king , till the water begin to boil , when she take some of it in she hand , and , sprinkle a little upon the bird , say , ` by virtue of these holy and mysterious word I have just pronounce , quit that form of a bird , and reassume that which thou hast receive from thy Creator . ' the word be scarcely out of the queen 's mouth , when , instead of a bird , the king see a young prince . King Beder immediately fall on he knee , and thank God for the favor that have be bestow upon he . then he take the king 's hand , who help he up , and kiss it in token of gratitude ; but the king embrace he with great joy . he would then have make he acknowledgment to the queen , but she have already retire to she apartment . the king make he sit at the table with he , and , after dinner be over , pray he to relate how the Princess Giauhara could have have the inhumanity to transform into a bird so amiable a prince as he be ; and the King of Persia immediately tell he . when he have do , the king , provoke at the proceeding of the princess , could not help blame she . ` it be commendable , ' say he , ` in the Princess of Samandal to feel hurt at the king she father 's ill-treatment ; but to carry she vengeance so far , and especially against a prince who be not guilty , be what she will never be able to justify herself for . but let we have do with this discourse , and tell I , I beseech you , in what I can further serve you . ' ` Sir , ' answer King Beder , ` my obligation to you majesty be so great , that I ought to remain with you all my life to testify my gratitude ; but since you majesty set no limit to you generosity , I entreat you to grant I one of you ship to transport I to Persia , where I fear my absence , which have be but too long , may have occasion some disorder , and that the queen my mother , from whom I conceal my departure , may be dead of grief , under the uncertainty whether I be alive or dead . ' the king grant what he desire with the best grace imaginable , and immediately give order for equip one of he largest ship , and the best sailor in he numerous fleet . the ship be soon furnish with all its crew , provision , and ammunition ; and as soon as the wind become fair , King Beder embark , after have take leave of the king , and thank he for all he favor . the ship sail before the wind for ten day ; on the eleventh day the wind change , and become very violent , there follow a furious tempest . the ship be not only drive out of its course , but so violently toss , that all its mast go by the board ; and drive along at the pleasure of the wind , it at length strike against a rock and split open . the greater part of the people be instantly drown . some few be save by swimming , and other by get on piece of the wreck . King Beder be among the latter , and , after have be toss about for some time by the wave and current , he at length perceive himself near the shore , and not far from a city that seem large . he exert he remain strength to reach the land , and be at length fortunate to come so near as to be able to touch the ground with he foot . he immediately abandon he piece of wood , which have be of so great service to he ; but when he come near the shore he be greatly surprise to see horse , camel , mule , ass , ox , cow , bull , and other animal crowd to the shore to oppose he landing . he have the utmost difficulty to conquer they obstinacy and force he way ; but at length he succeed , and sheltered himself among the rock till he have recover he breath , and dry he clothes in the sun . when the prince advance to enter the city , he meet with the same opposition from these animal , who seem to want to make he understand that it be dangerous to proceed . King Beder , however , get into the city soon after , and see many fair and spacious street , but be surprise to find no man there . this make he think it be not without cause that so many animal have oppose he passage . go forward , nevertheless , he observe several shop open , which give he reason to believe the place be not so destitute of inhabitant as he imagine . he approach one of these shop , where several sort of fruit be expose to sale , and salute very courteously a old man that be sit there . the old man , who be busy about something , lift up he head , and see a youth who have a appearance of grandeur , start , and ask he whence he come , and what business have bring he there . King Beder satisfy he in a few word ; and the old man further ask he if he have meet anybody on the road . ` you be the first person I have see , ' answer the king ; ` and I can not comprehend how so fine and large a city come to be without inhabitant . ' ` come in , sir ; stay no longer upon the threshold , ' reply the old man , ` or peradventure some misfortune may happen to you . I will satisfy you curiosity at leisure , and give you the reason why it be necessary you should take this precaution . ' King Beder would not be bid twice : he enter the shop , and sit down by the old man . the latter know he must want food , therefore immediately present he with what be necessary to recover he strength ; and although King Beder be very anxious to know why he have take the precaution to make he enter the shop , the old man nevertheless would not tell he anything till he have do eating , for fear the sad thing he have to relate might take away he appetite . at last he say to he , ` you have great reason to thank God you get hither without any misfortune . ' ` AlasS ! why ? ' reply king Beder , very much surprised and alarmed . ` because , ' answer he , ` this city be call the city of Enchantments , and be govern not by a king , but by a queen , who be a notorious and dangerous sorceress . you will be convince of this , ' add he , ` when you know that these horse , mule , and other animal that you have see be so many man , like you and I , whom she have transform by she diabolical art . and when young man like you enter the city , she have person station to stop and bring they , either by fair means or force , before she . she receive they in the most obliging manner ; she caress they , regale they , and lodge they magnificently . but she do not suffer they long to enjoy this happiness . there be not one of they whom she have not transform into some animal or bird at the end of forty day . you tell I all these animal oppose you landing and enter , the city . this be the only way they could make you comprehend the danger you be go to expose yourself to , and they do all in they power to save you . ' this account exceedingly afflict the young king of Persia . ` alas ! ' cry he , ` to what extremity have my ill-fortune reduce I ! I be hardly free from one enchantment , which I look back upon with horror , but I find myself expose to another much more terrible . ' this give he occasion to relate he story to the old man more at length , and to acquaint he with he birth , quality , he fall in love with the Princess of Samandal , and she cruelty in change he into a bird the very moment he have see she and declare he love to she . when the prince come to speak of he good fortune in find a queen who break the enchantment , the old man , to encourage he , say , ` notwithstanding all I tell you of the magic queen , that ought not to give you the least disquiet , since I be generally beloved throughout the city , and be not unknown to the queen herself , who have much respect for I ; therefore it be singularly fortunate that you address yourself to I rather than elsewhere . you be secure in my house , where I advise you to continue , if you think fit ; and provide you do not stray from hence , I dare assure you you will have no just cause to complain ; so that you be under no sort of constraint whatsoever . ' King Beder thank the old man for he kind reception , and the protection he be please so readily to afford he . he sit down at the entrance of the shop , where he no sooner appear than he youth and handsome look draw the eye of all that pass that way . many stop and compliment the old man on he have acquire so fine a slave , as they imagine the king to be ; and they be the more surprised , because they could not comprehend how so beautiful a youth could escape the queen 's knowledge . ` Believe not , ' say the old man , ` that this be a slave ; you all know that I be not rich enough . he be my nephew , son of a brother of mine that be dead ; and as I have no child of my own , I send for he to keep I company . ' they congratulate he good fortune in have so fine a young man for he relation ; but could not help tell he they fear the queen would take he from he . ` you know she well , ' say they , ` and you can not be ignorant of the danger to which you be expose , after all the example you have see . how grieve would you be if she should serve he as she have do so many other that we know of ! ' ` I be oblige to you , ' reply the old man , ` for you good will towards I , and I heartily thank you for you care ; but I shall never entertain the least thought that the queen will do I any injury , after all the kindness she have profess for I . in case she happen to hear of this young man , and speak to I about he , I doubt not she will cease to think of he , so soon as she come to know he be my nephew . ' the old man be exceedingly glad to hear the commendation they bestow on the young king of Persia . he become as fond of he as if he have be he own son . they have live about a month together , when , King Beder sit at the shop-door , after he ordinary manner , Queen Labe -lrb-B- so be this magic queen name -rrb-B- happen to come by with great pomp . the young king no sooner perceive the guard come before she , than he arise , and , go into the shop , ask the old man what all that show mean . ` the queen be come by , ' answer he , ` but stand still and fear nothing . ' the queen 's guard , clothe in purple uniform , and well arm and mount , march in four file , with they sabre draw , to the number of a thousand , and every one of they officer , as they pass by the shop , salute the old man : then follow a like number habit in brocaded silk , and better mount , whose officer do the old man the like honor . next come as many young lady on foot , equally beautiful , richly dress , and set off with precious stone . they march gravely , with half pike in they hand ; and in the midst of they appear Queen Labe , on a horse glitter with diamond , with a golden saddle , and a harness of inestimable value . all the young lady salute the old man as they pass by he ; and the queen , strike with the good mien of King Beder , stop as soon as she come before the shop . ` Abdallah ' -lrb-B- so be the old man name -rrb-B- , say she to he , ` tell I , I beseech thee , do that beautiful and charming slave belong to thee ? and be it long that thou hast be in possession of he ? ' Abdallah , before he answer the queen , throw himself on the ground , and rise again , say , ` Madam , it be my nephew , son of a brother I have , who have not long be dead . have no child , I look upon he as my son , and send for he to come and comfort I , intend to leave he what I have when I die . ' Queen Labe , who have never yet see any one to compare with King Beder , think immediately of get the old man to abandon he to she . ` Father , ' quoth she , ` will you not oblige I so far as to make I a present of this young man ? do not refuse I , I conjure you ; and I swear by the fire and the light , I will make he so great and powerful that no individual in the world ever arrive at such good fortune . although my purpose be to do evil to all mankind , yet he shall be the sole exception . I trust you will grant I what I desire , more on the account of the friendship I know you have for I , than for the esteem you know I always have , and shall ever have for you . ' ` Madam , ' reply the good Abdallah , ` I be infinitely oblige to you majesty for all you kindness , and the honor you propose to do my nephew . he be not worthy to approach so great a queen , and I humbly beseech you majesty to excuse he . ' ` Abdallah , ' reply the queen , ` I all along flatter myself you love I ; and I could never have think you would have give I so evident a token of you slighting my request . but I here swear once more by the fire and light , and even by whatsoever be most sacred in my religion , that I will pass on no farther till I have conquer you obstinacy . I understand very well what raise you apprehension ; but I promise you shall never have any occasion to repent have oblige I in so sensible a manner . ' Old Abdallah be exceedingly grieve , both on he own account and King Beder 's , for be in a manner force to obey the queen . ` Madam , ' reply he , ` I would not willingly have you majesty entertain a ill opinion of the respect I have for you , and my zeal always to do whatever I can to oblige you . I put entire confidence in you royal word , and I do not in the least doubt but you will keep it . I only beg of you majesty to delay do this great honor to my nephew till you shall again pass this way . ' ` that shall be to-morrow , ' say the queen , who incline she head , as a token of be please , and so go forward towards she palace . when Queen Labe and all she attendant be out of sight , the good Abdallah say to King Beder , ` Son , -lrb-B- for so he be wont to call he , for fear of some time or other betray he when he speak of he in public -rrb-B- , ` it have not be in my power , as you may have observe , to refuse the queen what she demand of I with so great earnestness , for fear I might force she to employ she magic both against you and myself openly or secretly , and treat you , as much from resentment to you as to I , with more signal cruelty than all those she have have in she power before . but I have some reason to believe she will treat you well , as she promise , on account of that particular esteem she profess for I . this you may have see by the respect show , and the honor pay I by all she court . she would be a fiendish creature indeed , if she should deceive I ; but she shall not deceive I unrevenged , for I know how to be even with she . ' these assurance , which appear very doubtful , be not sufficient to raise King Beder 's spirit . ` after all you have tell I of this queen 's wickedness , ' reply he , ` you can not wonder if I be somewhat fearful to approach she : I might , it may be , make little of all you could tell I of she , do I not know by experience what it be to be at the mercy of a sorceress . the condition I be in , through the enchantment of the Princess Giauhara , and from whence I be deliver only to enter almost immediately into another , have make I look upon such a fate with horror . ` Son , ' reply old Abdallah , ` do not afflict yourself ; for though I must own there be no great faith to be put in the promise and oath of so perfidious a queen , yet I must withal tell you that she power extend not to I . she know it well herself ; and that be the reason , and no other , that she pay I such great respect . I can quickly hinder she from do you the least harm , if she should be perfidious enough to attempt it . you may depend upon I ; and , provide you follow exactly the advice I shall give you before I hand you over to she , she shall have no more power over you than she have over I . ' the magic queen do not fail to pass by the old man 's shop the next day , with the same pomp as the day before , and Abdallah wait for she with great respect . ` Father , ' cry she , stop just before he , ` you may judge of my impatience to have you nephew with I , by my punctual come to put you in mind of you promise . I know you be a man of you word , and I can not think you will break it with I . ' Abdallah , who fall on he face as soon as he see the queen approach , rise up when she have do speaking ; and as he want nobody to hear what he have a mind to say to she , he advance with great respect as far as she horse 's head , and then say softly , ` powerful queen ! I be persuade you majesty will not be offend at my seeming unwillingness to trust my nephew with you yesterday , since you can not be ignorant of the reason I have for it ; but I implore you to lay aside the secret of that art which you possess in so wonderful a degree . I regard my nephew as my own son ; and you majesty would reduce I to despair if you should deal with he as you have do with other . ' ` I promise you I will not , ' reply the queen ; ` and I once more repeat the oath I make yesterday , that neither you nor you nephew shall have any cause to be offend with I . I see plainly , ' add she , ` you be not yet well enough acquaint with I ; you never see I yet but through a veil ; but as I find you nephew worthy of my friendship , I will show you I be not in any way unworthy of he . ' with that she throw off she veil and show King Beder , who come near she with Abdallah , incomparable beauty . but King Beder be little charmed . ` it be not enough , ' say he within himself , ` to be beautiful ; one 's action ought to correspond . ' Whilst King Beder be make these reflection , with he eye fix on Queen Labe , the old man turn towards he , and take he by the arm , present he to she majesty . ` here he be , madam , ' say he , ` and I beg of you majesty once more to remember he be my nephew , and to let he come and see I sometimes . ' the queen promise he should ; and to give a further mark of she gratitude , she cause a bag of a thousand piece of gold to be give he . he excuse himself at first from receive they , but she insist absolutely upon it , and he could not refuse she . she have cause a horse to be bring -lrb-B- as richly harness as she own -rrb-B- for the King of Persia . when King Beder be mount , he would have take he place behind the queen , but she would not suffer he , and make he ride on she left hand . she look at Abdallah , and after have make he a inclination with she head , she set forward on she march . instead of observe a satisfaction in the people 's face at the sight of they sovereign , King Beder take notice that they look at she with contempt , and even curse she . ` the sorceress , ' say some , ` have get a new subject to exercise she wickedness upon : will heaven never deliver the world from she tyranny ? ' ` Poor stranger ! ' cry out other , ` thou art much deceive if thou thinkest thine happiness will last long . it be only to render thy fall most terrible that thou art raise so high . ' this talk give King Beder to understand that Abdallah have tell he nothing but the truth of Queen Labe : but as it now depend no longer on himself to escape the mischief , he commit himself to divine Providence and the will of Heaven respect he fate . the magic queen arrive at she palace ; she alight , and give she hand to King Beder , enter with he , accompany by she woman and the officer . she herself show he all she apartment , where there be nothing to be see but massy gold , precious stone , and furniture of wonderful magnificence . then she lead he out into a balcony , from whence he observe a garden of surprising beauty . King Beder commend all he see , but so that he might not be discover to be any other than old Abdallah 's nephew . they discourse of indifferent matter , till the queen be inform that dinner be upon the table . the queen and King Beder arise , and sit down at the table , which be of massy gold , and the dish of the same metal . they begin to eat , but drink hardly at all till the dessert come , when the queen cause a cup to be fill for she with excellent wine . she take it and drink to King Beder 's health ; and then , without put it out of she hand , cause it to be fill again , and present it to he . King Beder receive it with profound respect , and by a very low bow signify to she majesty that he in return drank to she health . at the same time ten of Queen Labe 's woman enter with musical instrument , with which they make a agreeable concert . at length both begin so to be heat with wine , that King Beder forget he have to do with a magic queen , and look upon she only as the most beautiful queen he ever see . next morning the woman who have serve the king present he with fine linen and a magnificent robe . the queen likewise , who be more splendidly dress than the day before , come to receive he , and they go together to she apartment , where they have a good repast bring they , and spend the remainder of the day in walk in the garden , and in various other amusement . Queen Labe treat King Beder after this manner for forty day , as she have be accustom to do to all the other . the fortieth night she arise without make any noise and come into he room ; but he be awake , and perceive she have some design upon he , watch all she motion . she open a chest , from whence she take a little box full of a certain yellow powder ; take some of the powder , she lay a train of it across the chamber , and it immediately flow in a rivulet of water , to the great astonishment of King Beder . he tremble with fear , but still pretend to sleep , that the sorceress might not discover he be awake . Queen Labe next take up some of the water in a vessel , and pour it into a basin , where there be flour , with which she make a paste , and knead it for a long time : then she mix with it certain drug , which she take from different box , and make a cake , which she put into a covered baking-pan . as she have take care first of all to make a good fire , she take some of the coal , and set the pan upon they ; and while the cake be bake , she put up the vessel and box in they place again ; and on she pronounce certain word , the rivulet , which run along the end of the room , appear no more . when the cake be baked , she take it off the coal , and carry it into she room , without the least suspicion that he have see anything of what she have do . King Beder , whom the pleasure and amusement of a court have make forget he good host Abdallah , begin now to think of he again , and believe he have more than ordinary occasion for he advice , after all he have see the queen do that night . as soon as he be up , therefore , he express a great desire to go and see he uncle , and beg she majesty to permit he . ` what ! my dear Beder , ' cry the queen , ` be you then already tire , I will not say with living in so superb a palace as mine be , where you must find so many pleasure , but with the company of a queen who be so fond of you as I be ? ' ` great queen ! ' answer King Beder , ` how can I be tire of so many favor and grace as you majesty perpetually heap upon I ? I must own , however , it be partly for this reason , that , my uncle love I so tenderly , as I well know he do , and I have be absent from he now forty day , without once see he , I would not give he reason to think that I consent to remain longer without see he . ' ` go , ' say the queen , ` you have my consent ; but do not be long before you return . ' this say , she order he a horse richly caparison , and he depart . Old Abdallah be overjoy to see King Beder ; he embrace he tenderly , and King Beder do the same . as soon as they have sit down , ` well , ' say Abdallah to the king , ` how have you be , and how have you pass you time with that infidel sorceress ? ' ` Hitherto , ' answer King Beder , ` I must need own she have be extraordinarily kind to I , but I observe something last night which give I just reason to suspect that all she kindness hitherto be but dissimulation . ' he relate to Abdallah how and after what manner he have see she make the cake ; and then add , ` Hitherto , I must need confess I have almost forget , not only you , but all the advice you give I concern the wickedness of this queen ; but this last action of hers give I reason to fear she do not intend to observe any of she promise or solemn oath to you . I think of you immediately , and I esteem myself happy in that I have obtain permission to come to you . ' ` you be not mistake , ' reply old Abdallah with a smile , which show he do not himself believe she would have act otherwise , ` nothing be capable of oblige a treacherous person to amend . but fear nothing . I know the way to make the mischief she intend for you fall upon herself . you be alarm in time ; and you could not have do better than to have recourse to I . it be she ordinary practice to keep she lover only forty day , and after that time , instead of send they home , to turn they into animal , to stock she forest and park ; but I think of measure yesterday to prevent she do you the same harm . the earth have bear this monster long enough , and it be now high time she should be treat as she deserve . ' so say , Abdallah put two cake into King Beder 's hand , bid he keep they to make use of as he should direct . ` you tell I , ' continue he , ` the sorceress make a cake last night ; it be for you to eat , depend upon it ; but take great care you do not touch it . nevertheless , do not refuse to receive it when she offer it you ; but instead of tasting it , break off part of one of the two I shall give you , unobserved , and eat that . as soon as she think you have swallow it , she will not fail to attempt transform you into some animal , but she will not succeed ; when she see that she will immediately turn the thing into a joke , as if what she have do be only to frighten you . but she will conceal a mortal grief in she heart , and think she omit something in the composition of she cake . as for the other cake , you shall make a present of it to she and press she to eat it ; which she will not refuse to do , be it only to convince you she do not mistrust you , though she have give you so much reason to mistrust she . when she have eat of it , take a little water in the hollow of you hand , and throw it in she face , say , `` quit that form you now wear , and take that of such and such a animal '' as you think fit ; which do , come to I with the animal , and I will tell you what you shall do afterwards . ' King Beder thank Abdallah in the most expressive term , and take he leave of he and return to the palace . upon he arrival , he understand that the queen wait for he with great impatience in the garden . he go to she , and she no sooner perceive he , than she come in great haste to meet he . ` my dear beder ! ' say she , ` it seem age since I have be separate from you . if you have stay ever so little longer , I be prepare to come and fetch you . ' ` Madam , ' reply King Beder , ` I can assure you majesty I be no less impatient to rejoin you ; but I could not refuse to stay a little longer with a uncle that love I , and have not see I for so long a time . he would have keep I still longer , but I tear myself away from he , to come where love call I . of all he prepare for I , I have only bring away this cake , which I desire you majesty to accept . ' King Beder have wrap up one of the two cake in a handkerchief very neatly , take it out , and present it to the queen , say , ` I beg you majesty to accept it . ' ` I do accept it with all my heart , ' reply the queen , ` and will eat it with pleasure for you and you good uncle 's sake ; but before I taste it , I desire you for my sake to eat a piece of this , which I have make for you during you absence . ' ` fair queen , ' answer King Beder , receive it with great respect , I can not sufficiently acknowledge the favor you do I . ' King Beder then artfully substitute in the place of the queen 's cake the other which old Abdallah have give he , and have break off a piece , he put it in he mouth , and cry , while he be eat , ` ah ! queen , I never taste anything so charming in my life . ' be near a cascade , as the sorceress see he swallow one bit of the cake , and ready to eat another , she take a little water in the palm of she hand , throw it in the king 's face , say , ` wretch ! quit that form of a man , and take that of a vile horse , blind and lame . ' these word not have the desire effect , the sorceress be strangely surprise to find King Beder still in the same form , and that he only start for fear . she cheek redden ; and as she see that she have miss she aim , ` Dear Beder , ' cry she , ` this be nothing ; recover yourself . I do not intend you any harm ; I only do it to see what you would say . ' ` powerful queen , ' reply King Beder , ` persuade as I be that what you majesty do be only to divert yourself , yet I could not help be surprise . but , madam , ' continue he , ` let we drop this , and since I have eat you cake , would you do I the favor to taste mine ? ' Queen Labe , who could not better justify herself than by show this mark of confidence in the King of Persia , break off a piece of he cake , and eat it . she have no sooner swallow it than she appear much trouble , and remain as it be motionless . King Beder lose no time , but take water out of the same basin , and throw it in she face , cry , ` abominable sorceress ! quit that form of a woman , and be turn instantly into a mare . ' the same instant Queen Labe be transform into a very beautiful mare ; and she confusion be so great to find herself in that condition , that she shed tear in great abundance , which perhaps no mare before have ever be know to do . she bow she head to the foot of King Beder , think to move he to compassion ; but though he could have be so move , it be absolutely out of he power to repair the mischief he have do . he lead she into the stable belong to the palace , and put she into the hand of a groom , to bridle and saddle ; but of all the bridle which the groom try upon she , not one would fit she . this make he cause two horse to be saddle , one for the groom , and the other for himself ; and the groom lead the mare after he to old Abdallah 's . Abdallah , see at a distance King Beder come with the mare , doubt not but he have do what he advise he . ` hateful sorceress ! ' say he immediately to himself in a transport of joy , ` Heaven have at length punish thee as thou deservest . ' King Beder alight at Abdallah 's door , and enter the shop , embrace and thank he for all the signal service he have do he . he relate to he the whole matter , and tell he that he could find no bridle fit for the mare . Abdallah , who have one for every horse , bridle the mare himself , and as soon as King Beder have send back the groom with the two horse , he say to he , ` my lord , you have no reason to stay any longer in this city : mount the mare , and return to you kingdom . I have but one thing more to recommend to you ; and that be , if you should ever happen to part with the mare , be sure not to give up the bridle . ' King Beder promise to remember it ; and have take leave of the good old man , he depart . the young king of Persia no sooner get out of the city , than he begin to reflect with joy on the deliverance he have have , and that he have the sorceress in he power , who have give he so much cause to tremble . three day after he arrive at a great city , where , enter the suburb , he meet a venerable old man . ` Sir , ' say the old man , stop he , ` may I presume to ask from what part of the world you come ? ' the king stop to tell he , and as they be discourse together , a old woman come up ; who , stop likewise , weep and sigh bitterly at the sight of the mare . King Beder and the old man leave off discoursing , to look at the old woman , whom the king ask what cause she have to lament so much , ` AlasS ! sir , ' reply she , ` it be because you mare resemble so perfectly one my son have , which I still mourn the loss of on he account . I should think yours be the same , do I not know she be dead . sell she to I , I beseech you : I will give you more than she be worth , and thank you too . ' ` good woman , ' reply King Beder , ` I be heartily sorry I can not comply with you request : my mare be not to be sell . ' ` AlasS ! sir , ' continue the old woman , ` do not refuse I this favor . my son and I will certainly die with grief if you do not grant it . ' ` good mother , ' reply the king , ` I would grant it with all my heart , if I be dispose to part with so good a beast ; but if I be so disposed , I believe you would hardly give a thousand piece of gold for she , and I could not sell she for less . ' ` why should I not give so much ? ' reply the old woman : ` if that be the lowest price , you need only say you will take it , and I will fetch you the money . ' King Beder , see the old woman so poorly dress , could not imagine she could find the money ; therefore to try she , he say , ` go , fetch I the money , and the mare be yours . ' the old woman immediately unloose a purse she have fasten to she girdle , and desire he to alight , bid he tell over the money , and in case he find it come short of the sum demand , she say she house be not far off , and she could quickly fetch the rest . the surprise of King Beder , at the sight of this purse , be not small . ` good woman , ' say he , ` do you not perceive I have be banter you all this while ? I assure you my mare be not to be sell . ' the old man , who have be witness to all that be say , now begin to speak . ` Son , ' quoth he to King Beder , ` it be necessary you should know one thing , which I find you be ignorant of ; and that be , that in this city it be not permit to any one to tell a lie , on any account whatsoever , on pain of death . you can not refuse take this good woman 's money , and deliver you mare , when she give you the sum accord to the agreement ; and this you have better do without any noise , than expose yourself to what may happen . ' King Beder , sorely afflict to find himself thus trap by he rash offer , alight with great regret . the old woman stand ready to seize the bridle , and immediately unbridle the mare , and take some water in she hand , from a stream that run in the middle of the street , she throw it in the mare 's face , utter these word , ` Daughter , quit that strange shape , and re-assume thine own . ' the transformation be effect in a moment , and King Beder , who swoon as soon as he see Queen Labe appear , would have fall to the ground , if the old man have not catch he . the old woman , who be mother to Queen Labe , and have instruct she in all she magic secret , have no sooner embrace she daughter , than to show she fury , she whistle . immediately rise a genie of gigantic form and stature . this genie take King Beder on one shoulder , and the old woman with the magic queen on the other , and transport they in a few minute to the palace of Queen Labe in the City of Enchantments . the magic queen immediately fall upon King Beder , ` be it thus , ungrateful wretch , ' say she , ` that thou and thy unworthy uncle repay I for all the kindness I have do for you ? I shall soon make you both feel what you deserve . ' she say no more , but take water in she hand , throw it in he face with these word , ` come out of that shape , and take that of a vile owl . ' these word be follow by the effect , and immediately she command one of she woman to shut up the owl in a cage , and give he neither meat nor drink . the woman take the cage , and without regard what the queen order , give he both meat and drink ; and be old Abdallah 's friend , she send he word privately how the queen have treat he nephew , and of she design to destroy both he and King Beder , that he might give order to prevent it and save himself . Abdallah know no common measure would do with Queen Labe : he therefore do but whistle after a certain manner , and there immediately arise a vast giant , with four wing , who , present himself before he , ask what he want . ` lightning , ' say Abdallah to he -lrb-B- for so be the genie call -rrb-B- , ` I command you to preserve the life of King Beder , son of Queen Gulnare . go to the palace of the magic queen , and transport immediately to the capital of Persia the compassionate woman who have the cage in custody , so that she may inform Queen Gulnare of the danger the king she son be in , and the occasion he have for she assistance . take care not to frighten she when you come before she and tell she from I what she ought to do . ' lightning immediately disappear , and get in a instant to the palace of the magic queen . he instruct the woman , lift she up into the air , and transport she to the capital of Persia , where he place she on the terrace near the apartment where Queen Gulnare be . she go downstairs to the apartment , and she there find Queen Gulnare and Queen Farasche she mother lament they misfortune . she make they a profound obeisance and they soon understand the great need that King Beder be in of they assistance . Queen Gulnare be so overjoy at the news , that rise from she seat , she go and embrace the good woman , tell she how much she be oblige to she for the service she have do . then immediately go out , she command the trumpet to sound , and the drum to beat , to acquaint the city that the King of Persia would suddenly return safe to he kingdom . she then go again , and find King Saleh she brother , whom Queen Farasche have cause to come speedily thither by a certain fumigation . ` brother , ' say she to he , ` the king you nephew , my dear son , be in the City of Enchantments , under the power of Queen Labe . both you and I must go to deliver he , for there be no time to be lose . ' King Saleh forthwith assemble a powerful body of he marine troops , who soon rise out of the sea . he also call to he assistance the genie , he ally , who appear with a much more numerous army than he own . as soon as the two army be join , he put himself at the head of they , with Queen Farasche , Queen Gulnare , and the princess . they then lift themselves up into the air , and soon pour down on the palace and city of Enchantments , where the magic queen , she mother , and all the adorer of fire , be destroy in a instant . Queen Gulnare have order the woman who bring she the news of Queen Labe 's transform and imprison she son to follow she closely , and bid she go , and in the confusion , seize the cage , and bring it to she . this order be execute as she wish , and Queen Gulnare be no sooner in possession of the cage than she open it and take out the owl , say , as she sprinkle a little water upon he , ` my dear son , quit that strange form , and resume thy natural one of a man . ' in a moment Queen Gulnare no more see the hideous owl , but King Beder she son . she immediately embrace he with a excess of joy . she could not find in she heart to let he go ; and Queen Farasche be oblige to force he from she in she turn . after she , he be likewise embrace by the king he uncle and he relation . Queen Gulnare 's first care be to look out for old Abdallah , to whom she have be indebted for the recovery of the King of Persia . when he be bring to she , she say , ` my obligation to you , sir , have be so great , that there be nothing in my power that I would not freely do for you , as a token of my acknowledgment . do but tell I in what I can serve you . ' ` great queen , ' reply Abdallah , ` if the lady whom I send to you majesty will but consent to the marriage I offer she , and the King of Persia will give I leave to reside at he court , I will spend the remainder of my day in he service . ' then the queen turn to the lady , who be present , and find that she be not averse to the match propose , she cause they to join hand , and the King of Persia and she take care of they welfare . this marriage occasion the King of Persia to speak thus to the queen : ` Madam , ' say he , ` I be heartily glad of this match which you majesty have just make . there remain one more , which I desire you to think of . ' Queen Gulnare do not at first comprehend what marriage he mean ; but after a little consider , she say , ` of yours , you mean , son ? I consent to it with all my heart . ' then turn , and look on she brother 's sea attendant , and the genie who be still present , ` go , ' say she , ` and traverse both sea and land , to find out the most lovely and amiable princess , worthy of the king my son , and come and tell we . ' ` Madam , ' reply King Beder , ` it be to no purpose for they to take all that pain . you have no doubt hear that I have already give my heart to the Princess of Samandal . I have see she , and do not repent of the present I then make she . in a word , neither earth nor sea , in my opinion , can furnish a princess like she . it be true that she treat I in a way that would have extinguish any affection less strong than mine . but I hold she excused ; she could not treat I with less rigor , after I have have the king she father imprison . but it may be the king of Samandal have change he mind ; and he daughter the princess may consent to love I when she see she father have agree to it . ' ` Son , ' reply Queen Gulnare , ` if only the Princess Giauhara can make you happy , it be not my design to oppose you . the king you uncle need only have the King of Samandal bring , and we shall soon see whether he be still of the same untractable temper . ' strictly as the King of Samandal have be keep during he captivity by King Saleh 's order , yet he always have great respect show he , and be become very familiar with the officer who guard he . King Saleh cause a chafing-dish of coal to be bring , into which he throw a certain composition , utter at the same time some mysterious word . as soon as the smoke begin to arise , the palace shake , and immediately the king of Samandal , with King Saleh 's officer , appear . the King of Persia cast himself at the King of Samandal 's foot , and kneel say , ` it be no longer King Saleh that demand of you majesty the honor of you alliance for the King of Persia ; it be the king of Persia himself that humbly beg that boon ; and I be sure you majesty will not persist in be the cause of the death of a king who can no longer live if he do not share life with the amiable Princess Giauhara . ' the King of Samandal do not long suffer the king of Persia to remain at he foot . he embrace he and oblige he to rise , say , ` I should be very sorry to have contribute in the least to the death of a monarch who be so worthy to live . if it be true that so precious a life can not be preserve without my daughter , live , sir , ' say he , ` she be yours . she have always be obedient to my will , and I can not think she will now oppose it . ' speak these word , he order one of he officer , whom King Saleh have permit to be about he , to go and look for the Princess Giauhara , and bring she to he immediately . the princess have remain where the king of Persia have leave she . the officer soon perceive she , and bring she with she woman . the King of Samandal embrace she , and say , ` daughter , I have provide a husband for you ; it be the king of Persia you see there , the most accomplished monarch at present in the universe . the preference he have give you over all other Princesses oblige we both to express we gratitude . ' ` Sir , ' reply the Princess Giauhara , ` you majesty well know I never have presume to disobey you will in anything ; I shall always be ready to obey you ; and I hope the king of Persia will forget my ill-treatment of he , and consider it be duty , not inclination , that force I to it . ' the wedding be celebrate in the palace of the City of Enchantments , with the greater solemnity in that all the lover of the magic queen , who resume they original form as soon as ever that queen cease to live , come to return they thanks to the King of Persia , Queen Gulnare , and King Saleh . they be all son of king or prince , or person of high rank . King Saleh at length conduct the King of Samandal to he dominion , and put he in possession of they . the King of Persia return to he capital with Queen Gulnare , Queen Farasche , and the princess ; and Queen Farasche and the princess continue there till King Saleh come to reconduct they to he kingdom under the wave of the sea .