PRINCE AHMED and the fairy . Arabian Writer Prince Houssain would not honor the feast with he presence ; he could scarcely endure to see the princess in the arm of Prince Ali , who , he say , do not deserve she better or love she more than himself . he leave the court , and , renounce all right of succession to the crown , turn dervish , and put himself under the discipline of a famous sheik , who have gain a reputation for he exemplary life , and have take up he abode , together with he disciple , whose number be great , in a agreeable solitude . Prince Ahmed do not assist at Prince Ali 's and the Princess Nouronnihar 's wedding , any more than he brother Houssain , but do not renounce the world as he have do . he could not imagine what have become of he arrow , so he steal away from he attendant , and resolve to search for it , that he might not have anything to reproach himself with . with this intention , he go to the place where the PrincesS Houssain 's and Ali 's be gather up , and go straight forward from thence , look carefully on both side of he . he go so far , that at last he begin to think he labor be in vain ; yet he could not help go forwards , till he come to some steep , craggy rock , which would have oblige he to return , have he be ever so anxious to proceed . they be situate in a barren country , about four league distant from whence he set out . when Prince Ahmed come near these rock , he perceive a arrow , which he pick up , look earnestly at it , and be in the greatest astonishment to find it be the same he shoot . ` certainly , ' say he to himself , ` neither I nor any man living could shoot a arrow so far ' ; and find it lay flat , not stick into the ground , he judge that it have rebound from the rock . ` there must be some mystery in this , ' say he to himself again , ` and it may be to my advantage . perhaps fortune , to make I amend for deprive I of what I think the greatest happiness of my life , may have reserve a greater blessing for my comfort . ' as these rock be full of sharp point and crevice between they , the prince , full of these thought , enter a cavity , and look about , cast he eye on a iron door , which seem to have no lock . he fear it be fasten ; but push against it , it open , and discover a easy descent , but no step . he walk down with he arrow in he hand . at first he think he be go into a dark place , but presently a quite different light succeed that which he have come out of . come upon a spacious square , fifty or sixty pace distant , he perceive a magnificent palace ; but he have not time to look at it , for at the same moment a lady of majestic air , and of a beauty to which the richness of she clothes and the jewel which adorn she person add nothing , advance as far as the porch , attend by a troop of lady , of whom it be difficult to distinguish which be the mistress . as soon as Prince Ahmed perceive the lady , he hasten to pay he respects ; and the lady , on she part , see he come , be beforehand with he . Raising she voice , she say , ` come near , Prince Ahmed ; you be welcome . ' it be no small surprise to the prince to hear himself name in a palace he have never hear of , though so near he father 's capital , and he could not comprehend how he should be know to a lady who be a stranger to he . at last he return the lady 's salutation , by throw himself at she foot , and rise up again , say to she , ` Madam , I return you a thousand thanks for welcome I to a place where I have reason to believe my imprudent curiosity have make I penetrate too far . but , madam , may I , without be guilty of rudeness , presume to ask you how you know I ? and why you , who live in the same neighborhood should be so little know by I ? ' ` Prince , ' say the lady , ` let we go into the hall ; there I will gratify you request . ' after these word , the lady lead Prince Ahmed into the hall , the noble structure of which , and the gold and azure which embellish the dome , and the inestimable richness of the furniture , appear to he so wonderful that he have never in he life beheld anything like it , and believe that nothing be to be compare to it . ` I can assure you , ' reply the lady , ` that this be but a small part of my palace , and you will say so when you have see all the apartment . ' then she sit down on a sofa ; and when the prince at she entreaty have seat himself , she say , ` you be surprised , you say , that I should know you , and not be know by you ; but you will no longer be surprise when I inform you who I be . you can not be ignorant that the world be inhabit by genie as well as man : I be the daughter of one of the most powerful and distinguished of these genie , and my name be Pari Banou : therefore I know you , the sultan you father , the prince you brother , and the Princess Nouronnihar . I be no stranger to you love or you travels , of which I could tell you all the circumstance , since it be I myself who expose for sale the artificial apple which you buy at Samarcand , the carpet which Prince Houssain meet with at Bisnagar , and the tube which Prince Ali bring from Schiraz . this be sufficient to let you know that I be not unacquainted with anything that relate to you . the only thing I have to add be , that you seem to I worthy of a still better fortune than that of marry the Princess Nouronnihar . I be present when you draw you arrow , and foresee it would not go beyond Prince Houssain 's . I take it in the air , and make it strike against the rock near which you find it . it be in you power to avail yourself of this favourable opportunity . ' as the fairy Pari Banou pronounce these word Prince Ahmed begin to consider that the Princess Nouronnihar could never be he , and that the fairy Pari Banou excel she infinitely in beauty and agreeableness , and , so far as he could judge from the magnificence of the palace where she reside , in immense riches . ` Madam , ' reply he , ` should I , all my life , have have the happiness of be you slave , I should think myself the happiest of man . pardon I my boldness , and do not refuse to admit into you court a prince who be entirely devote to you . ' ` Prince , ' answer the fairy , ` as I have be a long time my own mistress , and be not dependent on my parent ' consent , it be not as a slave that I would admit you into my court , but as my husband , pledge you faith to I . I be , as I say , mistress here ; and must add , that the same custom be not observe among fairy as among other lady . ' Prince Ahmed make no answer , but be so full of gratitude that he think he could not express it better than by come to kiss the hem of she garment . ` then , ' answer the fairy , ` you be my husband , and I be you wife . but as I suppose , ' continue she , ` that you have eat nothing to-day , a slight repast shall be serve up for you while preparation be make for we wedding feast this evening , and then I will show you the apartment of my palace , and you shall judge if this hall be the smallest part of it . ' some of the fairy 's woman who come into the hall with they , and guess she intention , immediately go out , and return presently with some excellent meat and wine . when Prince Ahmed have eat and drunk as much as he want , the fairy Pari Banou take he through all the room , where he see diamond , ruby , emerald , and all sort of fine jewel , intermix with pearl , agate , jasper , porphyry , and all kind of the most precious marble ; not to mention the richness of the furniture , everything be in such profusion , that the prince acknowledge that there could not be anything in the world that could come up to it . ` Prince , ' say the fairy , ` if you admire so much my palace , which be indeed very beautiful , what would you say to the palace of the chief of we genie , which be much more beautiful , spacious , and magnificent ? I could also charm you with my garden ; but we will leave that till another time . Night draw near , and it will be time for supper . ' the next hall into which the fairy lead the prince , where the cloth be lay for the feast , be the only room the prince have not see , and it be not in the least inferior to the other . he admire the infinite number of wax candle perfumed with amber which form a agreeable and pleasant sight . a large sideboard be set out with all sort of gold plate , so finely work that the workmanship be much more valuable than the weight of the gold . several beautiful woman richly dress , whose voice be ravish , begin a concert , accompany with all kind of the most harmonious instrument he have ever hear . when they have sit down to table , the fairy Pari Banou take care to help Prince Ahmed to most delicious meat , which the prince have never hear of , but find so nice that he commend they in the highest term , say that they far surpass those among man . he find also the same excellence in the wine , which neither he nor the fairy taste till the dessert be serve up , which consist of the choicest sweetmeat and fruit . after the dessert , the fairy Pari Banou and Prince Ahmed rise from the table , which be immediately carry away , and sit on a sofa with cushion of fine silk , curiously embroider with all sort of large flower , at they back , and a great number of genie and fairy dance before they . the day follow the wedding be a continual feast , which the fairy Pari Banou , who could do it with the utmost ease , know how to diversify by new dish , new concert , new dance , new show , and new diversion ; which be all so extraordinary , that Prince Ahmed , if he have live a thousand year among man , could not have imagine . at the end of six month , Prince Ahmed , who always love and honor the sultan he father , feel a great desire to know how he be ; and as that desire could not be satisfy without he absent himself to go and hear it in person , he mention it to the fairy , and desire she would give he leave . this discourse alarm the fairy , and make she fear it be only a excuse to leave she . ` my queen , ' reply the prince , ` if you be offend at the leave I ask , I entreat you to forgive I , and I will make all the reparation I can . I do not do it with any intention of displease you , but from a motive of respect towards my father , whom I wish to free from the affliction in which my long absence must have overwhelm he ; indeed I have reason to think he believe I dead . ' ` Prince , ' say she , ` I be so fully convince that I can depend upon you sincerity , that I grant you leave to go , on condition that you absence shall not be long . ' Prince Ahmed would have throw himself at the fairy 's foot , to show he gratitude ; but she prevent he . ` Prince , ' say she , ` go when you please ; but first do not take it amiss if I give you some advice how you shall conduct yourself where you be go . First , I do not think it proper for you to tell the sultan you father of we marriage , nor what I be , nor the place where you be settle . beg he to be satisfy with know that you be happy , and that you desire no more ; and let he know that the sole end of you visit be to make he easy about you fate . ' she appoint twenty horseman , well mount and equip , to attend he . when all be ready , Prince Ahmed take leave of the fairy , embrace she , and renew he promise to return soon . then he horse , which be as beautiful a creature as any in the Sultan of the Indies ' stable , be bring , and he mount he with a extraordinary grace , which give great pleasure to the fairy , and after he have bid she a last adieu , set out on he journey . as it be not a great way to he father 's capital , Prince Ahmed soon arrive there . the people , glad to see he again , receive he with acclamation , and follow he in crowd to the sultan 's palace . the sultan receive and embrace he with great joy ; complain at the same time with a fatherly tenderness , of the affliction he long absence have be to he ; which he say be the more grievous , since as fortune have decide in favor of Prince Ali he brother , he be afraid he might have commit some act of despair . ` Sir , ' reply Prince Ahmed , ` you majesty know that when I shoot my arrow the most extraordinary thing that ever befall anybody happen to I , that in so large and level a plain it should not be possible to find my arrow . though thus vanquish , I lose no time in vain complaint ; but to satisfy my perplexed mind , I give my attendant the slip , and return back again alone to look for my arrow . I seek all about the place where Prince Houssain 's and Prince Ali 's arrow be find , and where I imagine mine must have fall ; but all my labor be in vain , until after have go four league , to that part of the plain where it be bound by rock , I perceive a arrow . I run and take it up , and know it to be the same which I have shoot . far from think you majesty have do I any injustice in declare for my brother Prince Ali , I interpret what have happen to I quite otherwise , and never doubt but there be a mystery in it to my advantage ; the discovery of which I ought not to neglect , and which I find out without go further from the spot . but as to this mystery , I beg you majesty to let I remain silent , and that you will be satisfy to know from my own mouth that I be happy and contented . this be the only motive which bring I hither ; the only favor I ask of you majesty be to give I leave to come often and pay you my respects , and inquire after you health . ' ` Son , ' answer the Sultan of the Indies , ` I can not refuse you the leave you ask I ; but I would much rather you would resolve to stay with I . at least tell I where I may hear of you , if you should fail to come , or when I may think you presence necessary . ' ` Sir , ' reply Prince Ahmed , ` what you majesty ask of I be part of the mystery I speak of . I beg of you to give I leave to remain silent on this head ; for I shall come so frequently where my duty call , that I be afraid I shall sooner be think troublesome than be accuse of negligence in my duty . ' the Sultan of the Indies press Prince Ahmed no more ; but say to he , ` Son , I penetrate no further into you secret , but leave you at you liberty . I can only tell you , that you could not do I a greater pleasure than to come and by you presence restore to I the joy I have not feel for a long time , and that you will always be welcome when you come . ' Prince Ahmed stay but three day at the sultan he father 's court , and on the fourth return to the fairy Pari Banou , who receive he with great joy , as she do not expect he so soon . a month after Prince Ahmed 's return from pay a visit to he father , as the fairy Pari Banou have observe that since the time that the Prince give she a account of he journey and he conversation with he father , in which he ask he leave to come and see he from time to time , he have never speak of the sultan , as if there have be no such person in the world , whereas before he be always speaking of he , she say to he one day , ` tell I , prince , have you forget the sultan you father ? do you not remember the promise you make to go and see he from time to time ? for my part , I have not forget what you tell I at you return , and put you in mind of it . pay he another visit to-morrow , and after that go and see he once a month , without speak to I , or wait for my leave . I readily consent . ' Prince Ahmed go the next morning with the same attendant as before , but much finer , and himself more magnificently mount , equip , and dress , and be receive by the sultan with the same joy and satisfaction . for several month he constantly pay he visit , and always in a richer and more brilliant equipage . at last some vizier , the sultan 's favorite , who judge of Prince Ahmed 's grandeur and power by the figure he make , abuse the liberty the sultan give they of speak to he , to make he jealous of he son . they represent to he that it be but common prudence to know where the prince have retire , and how he could afford to live at such a rate , since he have no revenue or income assign he ; that he seem to come to court only to brave he ; and that it be to be fear he might stir up the people 's favor and dethrone he . the Sultan of the Indies be so far from think that Prince Ahmed could be capable of so wicked a design as he favorite would make he believe , that he say to they , ` you be mistake ; my son love I , and I be assure of he tenderness and fidelity . be it as it will , I do not believe my son Ahmed be so wicked as you would persuade I he be ; however , I be oblige to you for you good advice , and do not doubt that it proceed from a good intention . ' the Sultan of the Indies say this that he favorite might not know the impression they hint have make on he mind . he be , however , so much alarm that he resolve to have Prince Ahmed watch , unknown to he grand vizier . for this end he send for a sorceress , who be introduce by a private door into he room . ` my son Ahmed come to my court every month ; but I can not learn from he where he reside , and I do not wish to force he secret out of he ; but I believe you be capable of satisfy my curiosity , without let he , or any of my court , know anything of the matter . you know that at present he be here with I , and be use to go away without take leave of I , or any of my court . go immediately out on the road , find out where he retire , and bring I word . ' the magician leave the sultan , and know the place where Prince Ahmed find he arrow , go thither and hide herself near the rock , so that nobody could see she . the next morning Prince Ahmed set out by daybreak , without take leave either of the sultan or of any of he court , accord to custom . the magician , see he come , follow he with she eye , till all of a sudden she lose sight of he and he attendant . the steepness of the rock form a insurmountable barrier to man , whether on horseback or on foot , so that the magician judge that there be but two way ; the prince have retire either into some cavern , or into some place underground , the abode of genie or fairy . when she think the prince and he attendant be out of sight , she come out of the place where she have hide herself , and go direct to the hollow where she have see they go in . she enter it , and proceed to the spot where it terminate in many winding , look carefully about on all side . but notwithstanding all she diligence she could perceive no opening , nor the iron gate which Prince Ahmed discover . for this door be to be see by and open to none but man , and only to man whose presence be agreeable to the fairy Pari Banou , and not at all to woman . the magician , who see it be in vain for she to search any further , be oblige to be satisfy with the discovery she have make , and return to give the sultan a account . when she have tell he what she have do , she add , ` you majesty may easily understand , after what I have have the honor to tell you , that it will be no difficult matter to give you the satisfaction you desire concern Prince Ahmed 's conduct . to do this , I only ask time , and that you will have patience , and give I leave to do it without inquire what measure I intend to take . ' the sultan be very well please with the magician 's conduct , and say to she , ` do as you think fit : I will wait patiently , ' and to encourage she , he make she a present of a diamond of great value , tell she it be only a earnest of the ample reward she should receive when she have do he that important service , which he leave to she management . as Prince Ahmed , after he have obtain the fairy Pari Banou 's leave to go to the Sultan of the Indies ' court , never fail once a month , and the magician know the time , she go a day or two before to the foot of the rock where she have lose sight of the prince and he attendant , and wait there with a plan she have form . the next morning Prince Ahmed go out as usual at the iron gate with the same attendant as before , and pass by the magician , whom he know not to be such . see she lie with she head on the rock , complain as if she be in great pain , he pity she , turn he horse about and go and ask she what be the matter , and what he could do to relieve she . the artful sorceress , without lift up she head , look at the prince , and answer in broken word and sigh , as if she could hardly fetch she breath , that she be go to the city , but on the way thither be take with so violent a fever that she strength fail she , and she be force to stop and lie down , far from any habitation , and without any hope of assistance . ` good woman , ' reply Prince Ahmed , ` you be not so far from help as you imagine . I be ready to assist you , and to convey you where you shall not only have all possible care take of you , but where you will find a speedy cure ; only get up , and let one of my people take you . ' at these word , the magician , who pretend illness only to know where the prince live , do not refuse the kind offer he make she so freely , and to show she acceptance rather by action than by word , she make many affected effort to get up , pretend that she illness prevent she . at the same time two of the prince 's attendant alight off they horse , help she up , and set she behind another . they mount they horse again , and follow the prince , who turn back to the iron gate , which be open by one of he retinue who ride before . when he come into the outer court of the fairy 's palace , without dismounting , he send to tell she he want to speak to she . the fairy Pari Banou come with all haste , not know what make Prince Ahmed return so soon . not give she time to ask he , he say , ` my princess , I desire you would have compassion on this good woman , ' point to the magician , who be take off the horse by two of he retinue : ` I find she in the condition you see , and promise she the assistance she stand in need of . I commend she to you care , and be persuade that you will not abandon she . ' the fairy Pari Banou , who have she eye fix upon the pretended sick woman all the time that the prince be talk , order two of the woman who follow she to take she from the two man that hold she up , and carry she into the palace , and take as much care of she as they could . whilst the two woman execute the fairy 's command , she go up to Prince Ahmed , and whisper in he ear say , ` Prince , I commend you compassion , which be worthy of you , but give I leave to tell you that I be afraid it will be but ill reward . this woman be not so ill as she pretend to be ; and I be very much mistake if she be not send hither on purpose to cause you great trouble . but do not be concern , let what will be devise against you ; be persuade that I will deliver you out of all the snare that may be lay for you . go and pursue you journey . ' this discourse of the fairy 's do not in the least alarm Prince Ahmed . ` my princess , ' say he , ` as I do not remember I ever do , or design to do , anybody a injury , I can not believe anybody can have a thought of do I one ; but if they have , I shall not forbear do good whenever I have a opportunity . ' so say , he take leave of the fairy , and set out again for he father 's capital , where he soon arrive , and be receive as usual by the sultan , who restrain himself as much as possible , to disguise the trouble arise from the suspicion suggest by he favorite . in the meantime , the two woman to whom the fairy Pari Banou have give she order carry the magician into a very fine apartment , richly furnish . first they set she down upon a sofa , with she back support with a cushion of gold brocade , while they make a bed , the quilt of which be finely embroider with silk , the sheet of the finest linen , and the coverlid cloth of gold . when they have put she into bed -lrb-B- for the old sorceress pretend that she fever be so violent that she could not help herself in the least -rrb-B- , one of the woman go out and soon return again with a china cup in she hand full of a certain liquor , which she present to the magician , while the other help she to sit up . ` drink this , ' say she , ` it be the water of the fountain of lion , and a sovereign remedy against all fever whatsoever . you will find the effect of it in less than a hour 's time . ' the magician , to dissemble the better , take it after a great deal of entreaty , as if she be very much averse to have it , but at last take the china cup , and shake she head , as if she do great violence to herself , swallow the liquor . when she have lie down again , the two woman cover she up . ` lie quiet , ' say she who bring she the china cup , ` and get a little sleep if you can ; we will leave you , and hope to find you perfectly cure when we come a hour hence . ' the magician , who come not to act a sick part long , but only to discover Prince Ahmed 's retreat , and what make he leave he father 's court , be fully satisfy in what she want to know , would willingly have declare that the potion have have its effect then , so great be she desire to return to the sultan , and inform he of the success of she commission ; but as she have be tell that the potion do not operate immediately , she be force to await the woman 's return . the two woman come again at the time they say they should , and find the magician up and dress , and seat on the sofa ; when she see they open the door she cry out , ` oh , the admirable potion ! it have work its cure much sooner than you tell I it would , and I have wait a long time with impatience , to desire you to take I to you charitable mistress to thank she for she kindness , for which I shall always be oblige to she . be thus cure as by a miracle , I have rather not lose time , but continue my journey . ' the two woman , who be fairy as well as they mistress , after they have tell the magician how glad they be that she be cure so soon , walk before she , and conduct she through several apartment into a large hall , the most richly and magnificently furnish of all the palace . Pari Banou be seat in this hall , on a throne of massy gold , attend on each hand by a great number of beautiful fairy , all richly dress . at the sight of so much majesty , the magician be so dazzled , that after she have prostrate herself before the throne , she could not open she lip to thank the fairy , as she propose . however , Pari Banou save she the trouble , and say to she , ` good woman , I be glad I have the opportunity of oblige you , and to see you be able to pursue you journey . I will not detain you , but perhaps you may not be displeased to see my palace ; follow my woman , and they will show it to you . ' the old sorceress , who have not power nor courage to say a word , prostrate herself a second time , with she head on the carpet that cover the foot of the throne , and so take she leave , and be conduct by the two fairy through all the apartment which be show to Prince Ahmed on he first arrival there . but what surprise she most of all be , that the two fairy tell she that all she see and admire so much be a mere sketch of they mistress 's grandeur and riches , and that in the extent of she dominion she have so many palace that they could not tell the number of they , all of different architecture , equally magnificent and superb . they lead she at last to the iron gate at which Prince Ahmed bring she in , and after she have take she leave of they , and thank they for they trouble , they open it , and wish she a pleasant journey . after the magician have go a little way , she turn back again to observe the door and know it again , but all in vain , for , as be before observe , it be invisible to she and all other woman . except in this , she be very well satisfy with she work , and post away to the sultan . when she come to the capital , she go by a great many by-ways to the private door of the palace . the sultan be inform of she arrival , send for she into he apartment and perceive a melancholy look on she countenance , he think she have not succeed , and say to she , ` by you look I guess that you have not make the discovery I expect from you . ' ` Sir , ' reply the magician , ` you majesty must give I leave to represent that you ought not to judge by my look whether or no I have acquit myself well as regard the command you be please to honor I with . the melancholy you observe proceeds from another cause than the want of success . ' then the magician relate to the Sultan of the Indies the whole story of all that happen from begin to end . when the magician have end , she say , ` what do you majesty think of these unheard-of riches of the fairy ? perhaps you will say you rejoice at the good fortune of Prince Ahmed you son . for my part , sir , I beg of you majesty to forgive I if I take the liberty to say that I think otherwise , and that I shudder when I consider the misfortune which may happen to you . and this be the cause of the melancholy which you perceive . I would believe that Prince Ahmed , by he own good disposition , be incapable of undertake anything against you majesty ; but who can say that the fairy , by the influence she already have over he , may not inspire he with a dangerous design of dethrone you majesty , and seize the crown of the Indies ? this be what you majesty ought to consider serious and of the utmost importance . ' though the Sultan of the Indies be very sure that Prince Ahmed 's natural disposition be good , yet he could not help be uneasy at the remark of the old sorceress , and say , ` I thank you for the pain you have take , and you wholesome caution . I be so aware of the great importance it be to I , that I shall take advice upon it . ' he have be consult with he favorite , when he be tell of the magician 's arrival . he order she to follow he to they . he acquaint they with what he have learn , and communicate to they also the reason he have to fear the fairy 's influence over the prince , and ask they what measure they think most proper to prevent so great a misfortune . one of the favorite , take upon himself to speak for the rest , say , ` you majesty know who must be the author of this mischief . in order to prevent it , now that he be in you court , and in you power , you ought not to hesitate to put he under arrest : I will not say take away he life , for that would make too much noise ; but make he a close prisoner while he live . ' this advice all the other favorite unanimously applaud . the magician , who think it too violent , ask the sultan leave to speak , which be grant , she say , ` Sir , I be persuade that the zeal of you councillor for you majesty 's interest make they propose arrest Prince Ahmed : but they will not take it amiss if I suggest to you and they consideration , that if you arrest the prince , you must also detain he retinue . but they be all genie . do they think it will be so easy to surprise , seize , and secure they person ? Will they not disappear , by the property they possess of render themselves invisible , and transport themselves instantly to the fairy , and give she a account of the insult offer to she husband ? and can it be suppose she will let it go unrevenged ? but it would be better , if , by any other means which might not make so great a noise , the sultan could secure himself against any ill design Prince Ahmed may have against he , and not involve he majesty 's honor . if he majesty have any confidence in my advice , as genie and fairy can do thing impracticable to man , he will touch Prince Ahmed 's honor , and engage he , by means of the fairy , to procure certain advantage . for example , every time you majesty take the field you be oblige to go to a great expense , not only in pavilion and tent for yourself and army , but likewise in mule and camel , and other beast of burden , to carry they baggage . Might you not request he to use he interest with the fairy to procure you a tent which might be carry in a man 's hand , and which should be large enough to shelter you whole army ? ` I need say no more to you majesty . if the prince bring such a tent , you may make a great many other demand of the same nature , so that at last he may sink under the difficulty and the impossibility of execute they , however fertile in invention the fairy who have entice he from you by she enchantment may be ; so that in time he will be ashamed to appear , and will be force to pass the rest of he life with he fairy , exclude from any connection with this world ; and then you majesty will have nothing to fear , and can not be reproach with so detestable a action as the shed of a son 's blood , or confine he in a prison for life . ' when the magician have finish she speech , the sultan ask he favorite if they have anything better to propose ; and find they all silent , determine to follow the magician 's advice , as the most reasonable and the most suit to he mild manner of government . the next day , when the prince come into he father 's presence and have sit down by he , after a conversation on different subject , the sultan say , ` Son , when you come and dispel those cloud of melancholy which you long absence have bring upon I , you make the place you have choose for you retreat a mystery to I . I be satisfy with see you again , and know that you be content with you condition , without wish to penetrate into you secret , which I find you do not care I should . I know not what reason you have thus to treat a father . I know you good fortune ; I rejoice with you , and very much approve of you conduct in marry a fairy so worthy of you love , and so rich and powerful , as I be inform . powerful as I be , it be not possible for I to have procure so great a match for you . now that you be raise to so high a rank as to be envy by everybody but a father like I , I not only desire you to preserve the good understanding we have live in hitherto , but to use all you credit with you fairy to obtain for I she assistance when I want it . I therefore will make a trial this day . ` I be persuade you could easily procure from she a pavilion that might be carry in a man 's hand , yet which would extend over my whole army ; especially when you let she know it be for I . though it may be a difficult thing , she will not refuse you . all the world know that fairy be capable of do the most extraordinary thing . ' Prince Ahmed never expect that the sultan he father would have ask a thing which , at first sight , appear to he so difficult , not to say impossible . though he know not absolutely how great the power of genie and fairy be , he doubt whether it extend so far as to furnish a tent such as he father desire . moreover , he have never ask anything like it of the fairy Pari Banou , but be satisfy with she continual kindness ; therefore he be in the greatest embarrassment what answer to make . at last he reply , ` if , sir , I have conceal from you majesty what happen to I and what course I take after find my arrow , the reason be that I think it be of no great importance to you to be inform of they ; and though I know not how this mystery have be reveal to you , I can not deny that you information be correct . I have marry the fairy you speak of . I love she , and be persuade she love I . but I can say nothing as to the influence you majesty believe I have over she . it be what I have not yet make any experiment of or thought of , and should be very glad if you would dispense with my undertaking it , and let I enjoy the happiness of love and be beloved with all the disinterestedness I propose to myself . but the demand of a father be a command upon every child who , like I , think it he duty to obey he in everything . and though it be with the greatest reluctance imaginable , I will not fail to ask my wife the favor you majesty desire , but will not promise to obtain it ; and if I should not have the honor to come again to pay you my respects , that shall be the sign that I have not have success : but I desire you to forgive I beforehand , and consider that you yourself have reduce I to this extremity . ' ` Son , ' reply the Sultan of the Indies , ` I should be very sorry that what I ask of you should prevent my ever see you again . Go , only ask she . think with yourself , that as you love she , you could refuse she nothing ; therefore , if she love you , she will not deny you request . ' all this discourse of the Sultan of the Indies could not persuade Prince Ahmed , who would rather he have ask anything than the risk of displease he dear Pari Banou ; and so great be he vexation , that he leave the court two day sooner than usual . when he return , the fairy , to whom he have always before appear with a cheerful countenance , ask he the reason of the alteration ; and find that instead of answer she , he inquire after she health to avoid satisfy she , she say to he , ` I will answer you question when you have answer mine . ' the prince decline it a long time , protest that nothing be the matter with he ; but the more he deny it , the more she press he , and say , ` I can not bear to see you in this condition : tell I what make you so uneasy , that I may remove the cause of it , whatever it may be ; for it must be very extraordinary if it be out of my power . ' Prince Ahmed could not long withstand the fairy . ` Madam , ' say he , ` God prolong the sultan my father 's life , and bless he to the end of he day . I leave he alive , and in perfect health : therefore that be not the cause of the melancholy you perceive in I . the sultan have impose upon I the disagreeable task of worry you . you know the care I have take , with you approbation , to conceal from he my happiness at home with you . how he have be inform of it I can not tell . ' here the fairy Pari Banou interrupt Prince Ahmed , and say , ` but I know . remember what I tell you of the woman who make you believe she be ill , on whom you take so much compassion . it be she who have acquaint the sultan you father with what you take so much care to hide from he . I tell you that she be no more sick than you or I , for , after the two woman whom I charge to take care of she have give she the water sovereign against all fever , which , however , she have no occasion for , she pretend that the water have cure she , and be bring to take leave of I , that she might go sooner to give a account of the success of she undertaking . she be in so much haste that she would have go away without see my palace , if I have not , by bid my two woman show it she , give she to understand that it be worth she see . but go on and tell I what be the necessity you father have impose on you which have make you feel troublesome to I , which I desire you will be persuade you can never be . ' ` Madam , ' pursued Prince Ahmed , ` you may have observe that hitherto I have never ask you any favor , for what , after the possession of so kind a wife , can I desire more ? I know how great you power be , but I have take care not to make trial of it . consider then , I beg you , that it be not I , but the sultan my father , who , indiscreetly , as I think , ask of you a pavilion large enough to shelter he , he court , and he army , from the violence of the weather , when he take the field , and yet small enough for a man to carry in he hand . once more remember it be not I , but the sultan my father who ask this favor . ' ` Prince , ' reply the fairy , smile , ` I be sorry that so small a matter should disturb you , and make you so uneasy . I see plainly two thing have contribute towards it : one be , the law you have impose upon yourself , to be content with love I and be beloved by I , and to deny yourself the liberty of ask I the least favor that might try my power . the other , I do not doubt , whatever you may say , be that you think what you father ask of I be out of my power . as to the first , I commend you for it , and shall love you the better , if possible ; and for the second , I must tell you that what the sultan you father ask of I be a trifle ; and upon occasion , I can do much more difficult thing . therefore be easy , and persuade that , far from feel worried , I shall always take great pleasure in whatever you can desire I to do for you sake . ' then the fairy send for she treasurer , to whom she say ` Nourgihan ' -lrb-B- which be she name -rrb-B- , ` bring I the largest pavilion in my treasury . ' Nourgihan return presently with a pavilion , which could not only be hold but conceal in the palm of the hand when it be close , and present it to she mistress , who give it to Prince Ahmed to look at . when Prince Ahmed see the pavilion , which the fairy call the largest in she treasury , he fancy she be joke , and he surprise appear in he face . Pari Banou burst out laugh . ` what ! Prince , ' cry she , ` do you think I jest with you ? you will see presently that I be in earnest . Nourgihan ' say she to she treasurer , take the tent out of Prince Ahmed 's hand , ` go and set it up , that the prince may judge whether the sultan he father will think it large enough . ' the treasurer immediately go out from the palace , and carry it to such a distance that when she have set it up one end reach to the palace . the prince , so far from think it small , find it large enough to shelter two army as numerous as that of the sultan he father ; and then say to Pari Banou , ` I ask my princess a thousand pardon for my incredulity : after what I have see , I believe there be nothing impossible to you . ' ` you see , ' say the fairy , ` that the pavilion be larger than you father may have occasion for ; but you be to observe that it become larger or smaller , accord to the army it be to cover , without be touch . ' the treasurer take down the tent again , reduce it to its first size , and bring it and put it into the prince 's hand . he take it , and next day mount he horse and go with the usual attendant to the sultan he father . the sultan , who be persuade that such a tent as he ask for be beyond all possibility , be in great surprise at the prince 's diligence . he take the tent and admire its smallness . but when he have set it up in the great plain , and find it large enough to shelter a army twice as large as he could bring into the field , he amazement be so great that he could not recover himself . as he think this might be troublesome in use , Prince Ahmed tell he that its size would always be proportionate to he army . to outward appearance the sultan express great obligation to the prince he son for so noble a present , desire he to return he thanks to the fairy Pari Banou ; and to show what a value he set on it , he order it to be carefully lay up in he treasury . but within himself he become more jealous than ever ; consider that by the fairy 's assistance the prince he son might perform thing that be infinitely above he own power , notwithstanding he greatness and riches ; and , therefore , more intent upon he ruin , he go to consult the magician again , who advise he to request the prince to bring he some of the water of the fountain of lion . in the evening , when the sultan be surround as usual by all he court , and the prince come to pay he respects among the rest , he say to he : ` Son , I have already express how much I be oblige to you for the present of the tent you have procure I , which I look upon as the most valuable thing in my treasury ; but you must do one thing more for I . I be inform that the fairy you wife make use of a certain water , call the water of the fountain of lion , which cure all sort of fever , even the most dangerous ; and as I be perfectly sure that my health be dear to you , I do not doubt that you will ask she for a bottle of that water for I , and bring it I as a sovereign remedy , which I may make use of when I have occasion . do I this service , and complete the duty of a good son towards a tender father . ' Prince Ahmed , who have believe that the sultan he father would have be satisfy with so singular and useful a tent as that which he have bring , and that he would not have impose any new task upon he which might hazard the fairy 's displeasure ; be thunderstruck at this new request , notwithstanding the assurance she have give he of grant he whatever lay in she power . after a long silence , he say , ` I beg of you majesty to be assure that there be nothing I would not undertake to prolong you life , but I wish it might not be by means of my wife . for this reason I dare not promise to bring the water . all I can do be to assure you I will ask she ; but it will be with as great reluctance as when I ask for the tent . ' the next morning Prince Ahmed return to the fairy Pari Banou , and relate to she sincerely and faithfully all that have pass at the sultan he father 's court , from the give of the tent , which he tell she he receive with the utmost gratitude , to the new request he have charge he to make , and when he have do , he add : ` but , my princess , I only tell you this as a plain account of what pass between I and my father . I leave you to you own discretion to gratify or reject this new desire . it shall be as you please . ' ` no , no , ' reply the fairy Pari Banou , ` whatever advice the magician can give he -lrb-B- for I see that he hearken to she -rrb-B- , he shall find no fault with you or I . there be a great deal of wickedness in this demand , as you will understand by what I be go to tell you . the fountain of lion be situate in the middle of a court of a great castle , the entrance into which be guard by four fierce lion , two of which sleep while the other two be awake alternately . but let not that frighten you . I will give you mean to pass by they without any danger . ' the fairy Pari Banou be at that time hard at work with she needle ; and as she have by she several ball of thread , she take up one , and present it to Prince Ahmed , say , ` first take this ball of thread ; I will tell you presently the use of it . in the second place , you must have two horse ; one you will ride yourself , and the other you will lead , which must be load with a sheep cut into four quarter , and kill to-day . in the third place , you must be provide with a bottle , which I will give you , to bring the water in . set out early to-morrow morning , and when you have pass the iron gate , throw before you the ball of thread , which will roll till it come to the gate of the castle . when it stop , as the gate will be open , you will see the four lion . the two that be awake will , by they roaring , wake the other two . be not frightened , but throw each of they a quarter of the sheep , and then clap spur to you horse , and ride to the fountain . fill you bottle without alighting , and then return with the same speed . the lion will be so busy eat that they will let you pass . ' Prince Ahmed set out the next morning at the time appoint by the fairy , and follow she direction carefully . when he arrive at the gate of the castle , he distribute the quarter of the sheep among the four lion , and pass through the midst of they with haste , get to the fountain , fill he bottle , and return as safe and sound as he go . when he be a little distance from the castle gate , he turn round ; and perceive two of the lion come after he , he draw he sabre , and prepared for defense . but as he go forward , he see one of they turn off the road , and show by he head and tail that he do not come to do he any harm , but only to go before he , and that the other stay behind to follow . he therefore put he sword again into its scabbard . guard in this manner he arrive at the capital of the Indies ; but the lion never leave he till they have conduct he to the gate of the sultan 's palace ; after which they return the way they come , though not without frightening all that see they , who flee or hide themselves , though they walk gently , and show no sign of fierceness . a great many officer come to attend the prince while he dismount , and conduct he to the apartment of the sultan , who be at that time converse with he favorite . he approach the throne , lay the bottle at the sultan 's foot , kiss the rich carpet which cover the footstool , and rise , say , ` I have bring you , sir , the health-giving water which you majesty so much desire to keep in you treasury ; but at the same time wish you such health that you may never have occasion to make use of it . ' after the prince have finish speaking , the sultan place he on he right hand , and then say , ` Son , I be very much oblige to you for this valuable present ; also for the great danger you have expose yourself to upon my account , which I have be inform of by the magician who know the fountain of lion ; but do I the pleasure , ' continue he , ` to tell I by what incredible power you have be preserve . ' ` Sir , ' reply Prince Ahmed , ` I have no share in the compliment you majesty be please to make I ; all the honor be due to the fairy my wife ; I merely follow she good advice . ' the sultan show outwardly all the demonstration of joy , but secretly become more and more jealous , retire into a inner apartment , and send for the magician . after confer with she , the sultan next day say to the prince , in the midst of all he courtier , ` Son , I have one thing more to ask of you ; after which , I shall expect nothing more from you obedience , nor you influence with you wife . this request be , to bring I a man not above a foot and a half high , whose beard be thirty foot long , who carry upon he shoulder a bar of iron of five hundredweight which he use as a quarterstaff , and who can speak . ' Prince Ahmed , who do not believe that there be such a man in the world as he father describe , would gladly have excuse himself ; but the sultan persist in he demand , and tell he that the fairy could do more incredible thing . next day the prince return to the subterranean kingdom of Pari Banou , to whom he tell he father 's new demand , which , he say , he look upon as more impossible than the first two ; ` for , ' add he , ` I can not imagine that there be or can be such a man in the world : either he have a mind to try whether I be silly enough to go and seek he ; or if there be such a man , he seek my ruin . how can he suppose that I should get hold of a man so small , armed as he describe ? what arm could I make use of to reduce he to submission ? ' ` do not affright yourself , prince , ' reply the fairy ; ` you run a risk in fetch the water of the fountain of lion for you father ; but there be no danger in find this man . it be my brother , Schaibar , who be so far from be like I , though we both have the same father , that he be of so violent a nature that nothing can prevent he give gory mark of he resentment for a slight offence ; yet , on the other hand , he be so good as to oblige any one in whatever they desire . he be make exactly as the sultan you father have describe he ; and he have no other arm than a bar of iron five hundred pound in weight , without which he never stir , and which make he respect . I will send for he , and you shall judge of the truth of what I tell you ; and prepare not to be frighten when you see he . ' ` what ! my queen , ' reply Prince Ahmed , ` do you say Schaibar be you brother ? let he be ever so ugly or deform , I shall love and honor he , and consider he as my nearest relation . ' the fairy order a gold chafing-dish to be set with a fire in it under the porch of she palace , with a box of the same metal . take some incense out of this , and throw it into the fire , there arise a thick cloud of smoke . some moment after , the fairy say to Prince Ahmed , ` Prince , here come my brother ; do you see he ? ' the prince immediately perceive Schaibar , who be but a foot and a half high , come gravely with he heavy bar on he shoulder ; he beard , thirty foot long , support itself before he , and a pair of thick moustache be tuck up to he ear , almost cover he face : he eye be very small , like a pig 's , and sink deep in he head , which be of a enormous size , and on which he wear a pointed cap : besides all this , he have a hump behind and before . if Prince Ahmed have not know that Schaibar be Pari Banou 's brother , he would not have be able to look at he without fear ; but know beforehand who he be , he wait for he with the fairy , and receive he without the least concern . Schaibar , as he come forward , look at the prince with a eye that might have chill he soul in he body , and ask Pari Banou who that man be . to which she reply : ` he be my husband , brother ; he name be ahm ; he be son to the Sultan of the Indies . the reason why I do not invite you to my wedding be that I be unwilling to divert you from the expedition you be engage in , and from which I hear with pleasure that you return victorious ; on he account I have take the liberty now to send for you . ' at these word , Schaibar , look at Prince Ahmed with a favourable eye , which however diminish neither he fierceness nor he savage look , say , ` be there anything , sister , in which I can serve he ? he have only to speak . it be enough for I that he be you husband . ' ` the sultan he father , ' reply Pari Banou , ` have a curiosity to see you , and I desire he may be you guide to the Sultan 's court . ' ` he need but lead the way ; I will follow he , ' reply Schaibar . ` brother , ' reply Pari Banou , ` it be too late to go to-day , therefore stay till to-morrow morning ; and in the meantime , as it be desirable that you should know all that have pass between the Sultan of the Indies and Prince Ahmed since we marriage , I will tell you this evening . ' next morning , after Schaibar have be inform of all that be proper for he to know , he set out with Prince Ahmed , who be to present he to the sultan . when they arrive at the gate of the capital , the people no sooner see Schaibar than they run and hide themselves in they shop and house , and shut they door ; while other take to they heel , and communicate they fear to all they meet , who do not wait to look behind they , but run too ; insomuch that Schaibar and Prince Ahmed , as they go along , find all the street and square desert , till they come to the palace , where the porter , instead of prevent Schaibar from enter , also run away ; so that the prince and he advance without any obstacle to the council-hall , where the sultan be seat on he throne give audience . here likewise the officer , at the approach of Schaibar , abandon they post . Schaibar , carry he head erect , go fiercely up to the throne , without wait to be introduce by Prince Ahmed , and accost the Sultan of the Indies in these word : ` you have ask for I , see , here I be : what do you want with I ? ' the sultan , instead of answering , clapt he hand before he eye , and turn away he head , to avoid the sight of so terrible a object . Schaibar be so much provoke at this uncivil and rude reception , after the Sultan have give he the trouble to come so far , that he instantly lift up he iron bar , and say , ` speak then , ' let it fall on he head , and kill he before Prince Ahmed could intercede in he behalf . all that he could do be to prevent he kill the grand vizier , who sit not far from he on he right hand , represent to he that he have always give the sultan he father good advice . ` these be they then , ' say Schaibar , ` who give he bad advice ; ' and as he pronounce these word , he kill all the other vizier on the right and leave , flatterer and favorite of the sultan , who be Prince Ahmed 's enemy . every time he strike , he kill some one or other , and none escape but they who , not render motionless by fear , save themselves by flight . when this terrible execution be over , Schaibar come out of the council-hall into the midst of the court-yard with the iron bar on he shoulder , and look at the grand vizier , who owe he life to Prince Ahmed , he say , ` I know there be a certain sorceress , who be a greater enemy of the prince my brother-in-law than all those base favorite I have chastise ; let she be bring to I at once . ' the grand vizier immediately send for she , and as soon as she be bring , Schaibar say , knock she down with he iron bar , ` take the reward of thy pernicious counsel , and learn to feign illness again : ' and leave she dead on the spot . after this he say , ` this be not enough ; I will treat the whole city in the same manner , if they do not immediately acknowledge Prince Ahmed my brother-in-law for they sultan , and Sultan of the Indies . ' then all that be present make the air ring with the repeat acclamation of ` long life to Sultan Ahmed ' ; and immediately afterwards he be proclaim throughout the whole town Schaibar make he be clothe in the royal vestment , install he on the throne , and after he have make all do homage and fidelity to he , go and fetch he sister Pari Banou , whom he bring with great pomp , and make she acknowledge Sultaness of the Indies . as for Prince Ali and Princess Nouronnihar , as they have no hand in the conspiracy against Prince Ahmed , nor know of any such conspiracy , Prince Ahmed assign they a considerable province , with its capital , where they spend the rest of they life . afterwards he send a officer to Prince Houssain to acquaint he with the change , and to make he a offer of whichever province he like best ; but that prince think himself so happy in he solitude that he bid the officer return the Sultan he brother thanks for he kindness , assure he of he submission ; and say that the only favor he desire be leave to live retire in the place he have make choice of for he retreat .