PRINCE CAMARALZAMAN and the princess of CHINA . Arabian Writer about twenty day ' sail from the coast of Persia , in the Islands of the Children of Khaledan , there live a king who have a only son , Prince Camaralzaman . he be bring up with all imaginable care ; and when he come to a proper age , he father appoint he a experienced governor and able tutor . as he grow up he learn all the knowledge which a prince ought to possess , and acquit himself so well that he charm all that see he , and particularly the sultan he father . when the prince have attain the age of fifteen year , the sultan , who love he tenderly , and give he every day new mark of he affection , have thought of give he a still greater one , by resign to he he throne , and he acquaint he grand vizier with he intention . ` I fear , ' say he , ` lest my son should lose in the inactivity of youth those advantage which nature and education have give he ; therefore , since I be advance in age , and ought to think of retirement , I have thought of resign the government to he , and pass the remainder of my day in the satisfaction of see he reign . I have undergo the fatigue of a crown a long while , and think it be now proper for I to retire . ' the grand vizier do not wholly dissuade the sultan from such a proceeding , but seek to modify he intention . ` Sir , ' reply he , ` the prince be yet but young , and it would not be , in my humble opinion , advisable to burden he with the weight of a crown so soon . you majesty fear , with great reason , he youth may be corrupt in indolence , but to remedy that do not you think it would be proper to marry he ? you majesty might then admit he to you council , where he would learn by degree the art of reign , and so be prepare to receive you authority whenever in you discernment you shall think he qualify . ' the sultan find this advice of he prime minister highly reasonable , therefore he summon the prince to appear before he at the same time that he dismiss the grand vizier . the prince , who have be accustom to see he father only at certain time , without be send for , be a little startled at this summons ; when , therefore , he come before he , he salute he with great respect , and stand with he eye fix on the ground . the sultan perceive he constraint , say to he in a mild way , ` do you know , son , for what reason I have send for you ? ' the prince modestly reply , ` God alone know the heart ; I shall hear it from you majesty with pleasure . ' ` I send for you , ' say the sultan , ` to inform you that I have a intention of provide a proper marriage for you ; what do you think of it ? ' Prince Camaralzaman hear this with great uneasiness : it so surprise he , that he pause and know not what answer to make . after a few moment ' silence , he reply , ` Sir , I beseech you to pardon I if I seem surprised at the declaration you have make to I . I do not expect such proposal to one so young as I be . it require time to determine on what you majesty require of I . ' Prince Camaralzaman 's answer extremely afflict he father . he be not a little grieved to see what a aversion he have to marriage , yet would not charge he with disobedience , nor exert he paternal authority . he contented himself with tell he he would not force he inclination , but give he time to consider the proposal . the sultan say no more to the prince : he admit he into he council , and give he every reason to be satisfy . at the end of the year he take he aside , and say to he , ` my son , have you thoroughly consider what I propose to you last year about marry ? Will you still refuse I that pleasure I expect from you obedience , and suffer I to die without it ? ' the prince seem less disconcerted than before , and be not long answer he father to this effect : ` Sir , I have not neglect to consider you proposal , but after the maturest reflection find myself more confirm in my resolution to continue as I be , so that I hope you majesty will pardon I if I presume to tell you it will be in vain to speak to I any further about marriage . ' he stop here , and go out without stay to hear what the sultan would answer . any other monarch would have be very angry at such freedom in a son , and would have make he repent it , but the sultan love he , and prefer gentle method before he proceed to compulsion . he communicate this new cause of discontent to he prime minister . ' I have follow you advice , ' say he , ` but Camaralzaman be further than ever from comply with my desire . he deliver he resolution in such free term that it require all my reason and moderation to keep my temper . tell I , I beseech you , how I shall reclaim a disposition so rebellious to my will ? ' ` Sir , ' answer the grand vizier , ` patience bring many thing about that before seem impracticable , but it may be this affair be of a nature not likely to succeed in that way . you majesty would have no cause to reproach yourself if you give the prince another year to consider the matter . if , in this interval he return to he duty , you will have the greater satisfaction , and if he still continue averse to you proposal when this be expire , you majesty may propose to he in full council that it be highly necessary for the good of the state that he should marry , and it be not likely he will refuse to comply before so grave a assembly , which you honor with you presence . ' the year expire , and , to the great regret of the sultan , Prince Camaralzaman give not the least proof of have change he mind . one day , therefore , when there be a great council hold , the prime vizier , the other vizier , the principal officer of the crown , and the general of the army be present , the sultan begin to speak thus to the prince : ` my son , it be now a long while since I have express to you my earnest desire to see you marry ; and I imagine you would have have more consideration for a father , who require nothing unreasonable of you , than to oppose he so long . but after so long a resistance on you part , which have almost worn out my patience , I have think fit to propose the same thing once more to you in the presence of my council . I would have you consider that you ought not to have refuse this , not merely to oblige a parent ; the well-being of my dominion require it ; and the assembly here present join with I to require it of you . declare yourself , then ; that , accord to you answer , I may take the proper measure . ' the prince answer with so little reserve , or rather with so much warmth , that the sultan , enrage to see himself thwart in full council , cry out , ` unnatural son ! have you the insolence to talk thus to you father and sultan ? ' he order the guard to take he away , and carry he to a old tower that have be unoccupied for a long while , where he be shut up , with only a bed , a little furniture , some book , and one slave to attend he . Camaralzaman , thus deprive of liberty , be nevertheless pleased that he have the freedom to converse with he book , and that make he look on he imprisonment with indifference . in the evening he bath and say he prayer ; and after have read some chapter in the Koran , with the same tranquility of mind as if he have be in the sultan 's palace , he undress himself and go to bed , leave he lamp burning by he all the while he sleep . in this tower be a well , which serve in the daytime for a retreat to a certain fairy , name Maimoune , daughter of Damriat , king or head of a legion of genie . it be about midnight when Maimoune spring lightly to the mouth of the well , to wander about the world after she wonted custom , where she curiosity lead she . she be surprise to see a light in Prince Camaralzaman 's chamber , and enter , without stop , over the slave who lay at the door . Prince Camaralzaman have but half-covered he face with the bedclothes , and Maimoune perceive the finest young man she have see in all she ramble through the world . ` what crime can he have commit , ' say she to herself , ` that a man of he high rank can deserve to be treat thus severely ? ' for she have already hear he story , and could hardly believe it . she could not forbear admire the prince , till at length , have kiss he gently on both cheek and in the middle of the forehead without wake he , she take she flight into the air . as she mount high to the middle region , she hear a great flap of wing , which make she fly that way ; and when she approach , she know it be a genie who make the noise , but it be one of those that be rebellious . as for Maimoune , she belong to that class whom the great Solomon compel to acknowledge he . this genie , whose name be Danhasch , know Maimoune , and be seize with fear , be sensible how much power she have over he by she submission to the Almighty . he would fain have avoid she , but she be so near he that he must either fight or yield . he therefore break silence first . ` Brave Maimoune , ' say he , in the tone of a suppliant , ` swear to I that you will not hurt I ; and I swear also on my part not to do you any harm . ' ` cursed genie , ' reply Maimoune , ` what hurt canst thou do I ? I fear thee not ; but I will grant thee this favor ; I will swear not to do thee any harm . tell I then , wander spirit , whence thou comest , what thou hast see , and what thou hast do this night . ' ` fair lady , ' answer Danhasch , ` you meet I at a good time to hear something very wonderful . I come from the utmost limit of China , which look on the last island of this hemisphere . but , charming Maimoune , ' say Danhasch , who so tremble with fear at the sight of this fairy that he could hardly speak , ` promise I at least that you will forgive I , and let I go on after I have satisfy you demand . ' ` go on , go on , cursed spirit , ' reply Maimoune ; ` go on and fear nothing . Dost thou think I be as perfidious a elf as thyself , and capable of break the solemn oath I have make ? be sure you tell nothing but what be true , or I shall clip thy wing , and treat thee as thou deservest . ' Danhasch , a little hearten at the word of Maimoune , say , ` my dear lady , I will tell you nothing but what be strictly true , if you will but have the goodness to hear I . the country of China , from whence I come , be one of the largest and most powerful kingdom of the earth . the king of this country be at present Gaiour , who have a only daughter , the finest maiden that ever be see in the world since it be a world . neither you nor I , nor you class nor mine , nor all we respective genie , have expression strong enough , nor eloquence sufficient to describe this brilliant lady . any one that do not know the king , father of this incomparable princess would scarcely be able to imagine the great respect and kindness he show she . no one have ever dream of such care as he to keep she from every one but the man who be to marry she : and , that the retreat which he have resolve to place she in may not seem irksome to she , he have build for she seven palace , the most extraordinary and magnificent that ever be know . ` the first palace be of rock crystal , the second of copper , the third of fine steel , the fourth of brass , the fifth of touchstone , the sixth of silver , and the seventh of massy gold . he have furnish these palace most sumptuously , each in a manner suit to the material that they be build of . he have fill the garden with grass and flower , intermix with piece of water , water - work , fountain , canal , cascade , and several great grove of tree , where the eye be lose in the prospect , and where the sun never enter , and all differently arrange . King Gaiour , in a word , have show that he have spare no expense . ` upon the fame of this incomparable princess 's beauty , the most powerful neighbouring king send ambassador to request she in marriage . the King of China receive they all in the same obliging manner ; but as he resolve not to compel he daughter to marry without she consent , and as she do not like any of the suitor , the ambassador be force to return as they come : they be perfectly satisfy with the great honor and civility they have receive . ' ' `` Sir , '' say the princess to the king she father , `` you have a inclination to see I married , and think to oblige I by it ; but where shall I find such stately palace and delicious garden as I have with you majesty ? through you good pleasure I be under no constraint , and have the same honor show to I as be pay to yourself . these be advantage I can not expect to find anywhere else , to whatsoever husband I should give my hand ; man love ever to be master , and I do not care to be command . '' ` at last there come a embassy from the most rich and potent king of all . this prince the King of China recommend to he daughter as she husband , urge many powerful argument to show how much it would be to she advantage to accept he , but she intreat she father to dispense with she accept he for the same reason as before , and at last lose all the respect due to the king she father : `` Sir , '' say she , in anger , `` talk to I no more of this or any other match , unless you would have I plunge this poniard in my bosom , to deliver myself from you importunity . '' ` the king , greatly enraged , say `` Daughter , you be mad , and I must treat you as such . '' in a word , he have she shut up in a single apartment of one of he palace , and allow she only ten old woman to wait upon she and keep she company , the chief of whom have be she nurse . and in order that the king he neighbor , who have send embassy to he on this account , might not think any more of she , he despatch envoy to they severally , to let they know how averse he daughter be to marriage ; and as he do not doubt that she be really mad , he charge they to make know in every court that if there be any physician that would undertake to come and cure she , he should , if he succeed , marry she for he pain . ` Fair Maimoune , ' continue Danhasch , ` all that I have tell you be true ; and I have not fail to go every day regularly to contemplate this incomparable beauty , to whom I would be very sorry to do the least harm , notwithstanding my natural inclination to mischief . come and see she , I conjure you ; it would be well worth you while ; I be ready to wait on you as a guide , and you have only to command I . I doubt not that you would think yourself oblige to I for the sight of a princess unequalled for beauty . ' instead of answer Danhasch , Maimoune burst out into violent laughter , which last for some time ; and Danhasch , not know what might be the occasion of it , be astonish beyond measure . when she have laugh till she could laugh no more , she cry , ` good , good , very good ! you would have I believe all you have tell I : I think you intend to tell I something surprising and extraordinary , and you have be talk all this while of a mad woman . what would you say , curse genie , if you have see the beautiful prince that I have just come from see ? I be confident you would soon give up the contest , and not pretend to compare you choice with mine . ' ` agreeable Maimoune , ' reply Danhasch , ` may I presume to ask you who be this prince you speak of ? ' ` Know , ' answer Maimoune , ` the same thing have happen to he as to you princess . the king he father would have marry he against he will ; but , after much importunity , he frankly tell he he would have nothing to do with a wife . for this reason he be at this moment imprison in a old tower which I make my residence , and whence I come but just now from admire he . ' ` I will not absolutely contradict you , ' reply Danhasch ; ` but , my pretty lady , you must give I leave to be of opinion , till I have see you prince , that no mortal upon earth can come up to the beauty of my princess . ' ` hold thy tongue , curse sprite , ' reply Maimoune . ` I tell thee once more that that can never be . ' ` I will not contend with you , ' say Danhasch ; ` but the way to be convince whether what I say be true or false be to accept the proposal I make you to go and see my princess , and after that I will go with you to you prince . ' ` there be no need I should take so much pain ' reply Maimoune ; ` there be another way to satisfy we both ; and that be for you to bring you princess , and place she in my prince 's room ; by this mean it will be easy for we to compare they together and determine the dispute . ' Danhasch consent to what Maimoune have propose , and determine to set out immediately for China upon that errand . but Maimoune tell he she must first show he the tower whither he be to bring the princess . they fly together to the tower , and when Maimoune have show it to Danhasch , she cry , ` go , fetch you princess , and do it quickly , for you shall find I here : but listen , you shall pay the wager if my prince be more beautiful than you princess , and I will pay it if you princess be more beautiful than my prince . ' Danhasch leave Maimoune , and fly towards China , whence he soon return with incredible speed , bring the fair princess along with he , asleep . Maimoune receive he , and introduce he into the tower of Prince Camaralzaman , where they place the princess still asleep . at once there arise a great contest between the genie and the fairy about they respective beauty . they be some time admire and compare they without speaking : at length Danhasch break silence , and say to Maimoune , ` you see , as I have already tell you , my princess be handsomer than you prince ; now , I hope , you be convinced of it . ' ` convince of it ! ' reply Maimoune ; ` I be not convince of it , and you must be blind if you can not see that my prince be far handsomer . the princess be fair , I do not deny ; but if you compare they together without prejudice , you will quickly see the difference . ' ` though I should compare they ever so often , ' say Danhasch , ' I could never change my opinion . I see at first sight what I see now , and time will not make I see differently : however , this shall not hinder my yielding to you , charming Maimoune , if you desire it . ' ` yield to I as a favor ? I scorn it , ' say Maimoune : ` I would not receive a favor at the hand of such a wicked genie ; I refer the matter to a umpire , and if you will not consent I shall win by you refusal . ' Danhasch no sooner give he consent than Maimoune stamp with she foot ; the earth open , and out come a hideous , humpbacked , squint , and lame genie , with six horn on he head , and claw on he hand and foot . as soon as he have come forth , and the earth have close up , he , perceive Maimoune , cast himself at she foot , and then rise up on one knee ask she what she would please to do with he . ` rise , Caschcasch , ' say Maimoune , ` I bring you hither to determine a difference between I and Danhasch . look there , and tell I , without partiality , which be the handsomest of those two that lie asleep , the young man or the young lady . ' Caschcasch look at the prince and princess with great attention , admiration and surprise ; and after he have consider they a good while , without be able to determine which be the handsomer , he turn to Maimoune , and say , ` Madam , I must confess I should deceive you and betray myself , if I pretend to say that one be a whit handsomer than the other : the more I examine they , the more it seem to I that each possess , in a sovereign degree , the beauty which be betwixt they . but if there be any difference , the best way to determine it be to awaken they one after the other , and by they conduct to decide which ought to be deem the most beautiful . ' this proposal of Caschcasch 's pleased equally both Maimoune and Danhasch . Maimoune then change herself into a gnat , and leap on the prince 's neck sting he so smartly that he awake , and put up he hand to the place ; but Maimoune skip away , and resume she own form , which , like those of the two genie , be invisible , the better to observe what he would do . in draw back he hand , the prince chance to let it fall on that of the Princess of China , and on open he eye , be exceedingly surprise to perceive a lady of the greatest beauty . he raise he head and lean on he elbow , the better to consider she . she be so beautiful that he could not help cry out , ` what beauty ! my heart ! my soul ! ' in say which he kiss she with so little caution that she would certainly have be awake by it , have she not sleep sounder than ordinary , through the enchantment of Danhasch . he be go to awaken she at that instant , but suddenly refrain himself . ` be not this she , ' say he , ` that the sultan my father would have have I marry ? he be in the wrong not to let I see she sooner . I should not have offend he by my disobedience and passionate language to he in public , and he would have spare himself the confusion which I have occasion he . ' the prince begin to repent sincerely of the fault he have commit , and be once more upon the point of wake the Princess of China . ` it may be , ' say he , recollect himself , ` that the sultan my father have a mind to surprise I with this young lady . who know but he have bring she himself , and be hide behind the curtain to make I ashamed of myself . I will content myself with this ring , as a remembrance of she . ' he then gently draw off a fine ring which the princess have on she finger , and immediately put on one of he own in its place . after this he fall into a more profound sleep than before through the enchantment of the genie . as soon as Prince Camaralzaman be in a sound sleep , Danhasch transform himself , and go and bit the princess so rudely on the lip that she forthwith awake , start up , and open she eye , be not a little surprised to see a beautiful young prince . from surprise she proceed to admiration , and from admiration to a transport of joy . ` what , ' cry she , ` be it you the king my father have design I for a husband ? I be indeed most unfortunate for not know it before , for then I should not have make he so angry with I . wake then , wake ! ' so say , she take Prince Camaralzaman by the arm and shake he so that he would have awake , have not Maimoune increase he sleep by enchantment . she shake he several time , and find he do not wake , she seize he hand , and kiss it eagerly , perceive he have a ring upon he finger which greatly resemble hers , and which she be convince be she own , by see she have another on she finger instead of it . she could not comprehend how this exchange could have be make . tired with she fruitless endeavor to awaken the prince , she soon fall asleep . when Maimoune see that she could now speak without fear of awake the princess , she cry to Danhasch , ` ah , cursed genie dost thou not now see what thy contest have come to ? Art thou not now convinced how much thy princess be inferior to my prince ? but I pardon thee thy wager . another time believe I when I assert anything . ' then turn to Caschcasch , ` as for you , ' say she , ' I thank you for you trouble ; take the princess , you and Danhasch , and convey she back whence he have take she . ' Danhasch and Caschcasch do as they be command , and Maimoune retire to she well . Prince Camaralzaman on wake next morning look to see if the lady whom he have see the night before be there . when he find she be go , he cry out , ` I think indeed this be a trick the king my father design to play I . I be glad I be aware of it . ' then he wake the slave , who be still asleep , and bid he come and dress he , without say anything . the slave bring a basin and water , and after he have wash and say he prayer , he take a book and read for some time . after this , he call the slave , and say to he , ` come hither , and look you , do not tell I a lie . how come that lady hither , and who bring she ? ' ` my lord , ' answer the slave with great astonishment , ` I know not what lady you highness speak of . ' ` I speak , ' say the prince , ` of she that come , or rather , that be bring hither . ' ` my lord , ' reply the slave , ` I swear I know of no such lady ; and how should she come in without my knowledge , since I lay at the door ? ' ` you be a lie rascal , ' reply the prince , ` and in the plot to vex and provoke I the more . ' so say , he give he a box on the ear which knock he down ; and after have stamp upon he for some time , he at length tie the well-rope under he arm , and plunge he several time into the water , neck and heel . I will drown thee , ' cry he , ` if thou dost not tell I speedily who this lady be , and who bring she . ' the slave , perplexed and half-dead , say within himself , ` the prince must have lose he sens through grief . ' ` my lord , then , ' cry he , in a suppliant tone , ` I beseech you highness to spare my life , and I will tell you the truth . ' the prince draw the slave up , and press he to tell he . as soon as he be out of the well , ` my lord , ' say he tremble , ` you highness must perceive that it be impossible for I to satisfy you in my present condition ; I beg you to give I leave to go and change my clothes first . ' ` I permit you , but do it quickly , ' say the prince , ` and be sure you conceal nothing . ' the slave go out , and have lock the door upon the prince , run to the palace just as he be . the king be at that time in discourse with he prime vizier , to whom he have just relate the grief in which he have pass the night on account of he son 's disobedience and opposition to he will . the minister endeavor to comfort he master by tell he that the prince himself have give he good cause to be angry . ` Sir , ' say he , ` you majesty need not repent of have treat you son after this sort . Have but patience to let he continue a while in prison , and assure yourself he temper will abate , and he will submit to all you require . ' the grand vizier have just make a end of speaking when the slave come in and cast himself at the king 's foot . ` my lord , ' say he , ' I be very sorry to be the messenger of ill news to you majesty , which I know must create you fresh affliction . the prince be distract , my lord ; and he treatment to I , as you may see , too plainly prove it . ' then he proceed to tell all the particulars of what Prince Camaralzaman have say to he , and the violence with which he have be treat . the king , who do not expect to hear anything of this afflictive kind , say to the prime minister , ` this be very melancholy , very different from the hope you give I just now : go immediately , without loss of time , see what be the matter , and come and give I a account . ' the grand vizier obey instantly ; and come into the prince 's chamber , he find he sit on he bed in good temper , and with a book in he hand , which he be read . after mutual salutation , the vizier sit down by he , and say , ` my lord , I wish that a slave of yours be punish for come to frighten the king you father . ' ` what , ' reply the prince , ` could give my father alarm ? I have much greater cause to complain of that slave . ' ` Prince , ' answer the vizier , ` God forbid that the news which he have tell you father concern you should be true ; indeed , I myself find it to be false , by the good temper I observe you in . ' ` it may be , ' reply the prince , ` that he do not make himself well understand ; but since you be come , who ought to know something of the matter , give I leave to ask you who be that lady who be here last night ? ' the grand vizier be thunderstruck at this question ; however , he recover himself and say , ` my lord , be not surprise at my astonishment at you question . be it possible that a lady , or any other person in the world , should penetrate by night into this place , without enter at the door and walking over the body of you slave ? I beseech you , recollect yourself , and you will find it be only a dream which have make this impression on you . ' ` I give no ear to what you say , ' say the prince , raise he voice ; ` I must know of you absolutely what be become of the lady ; and if you hesitate to obey I , I shall soon be able to force you to obey I . ' at these stern word the grand vizier begin to be in greater confusion than before , and be think how to extricate himself . he endeavor to pacify the prince by good word , and beg of he , in the most humble and guard manner , to tell he if he have see this lady . ` yes , yes , ' answer the prince , ` I have see she , and be very well satisfied you send she . she play the part you have give she admirably well , for I could not get a word out of she . she pretend to be asleep , but I be no sooner fall into a slumber than she arise and leave I . you know all this ; for I doubt not she have be to make she report to you . ' ` my lord , ' reply the vizier , ` nothing of this have be do which you seem to reproach I with ; neither you father nor I have send this lady you speak of ; permit I therefore to remind you highness once more that you have only see this lady in a dream . ' ` do you come to affront and contradict I , ' say the prince in a great rage , ` and to tell I to my face that what I have tell you be a dream ? ' at the same time he take he by the beard , and load he with blow as long as he could stand . the poor grand vizier endure with respectful patience all the violence of he lord 's indignation , and could not help say within himself , ` now be I in as bad a condition as the slave , and shall think myself happy if I can , like he , escape from any further danger . ' in the midst of repeated blow he cry out for but a moment 's audience , which the prince , after he have nearly tire himself with beat he , consent to give . ` I own , my prince , ' say the grand vizier , dissemble , ` there be something in what you highness suspect ; but you can not be ignorant of the necessity a minister be under to obey he royal master 's order ; yet , if you will but be please to set I at liberty , I will go and tell he anything on you part that you shall think fit to command I . ' ` go then , ' say the prince , ` and tell he from I that if he please I will marry the lady he send I . do this quickly , and bring I a speedy answer . ' the grand vizier make a profound reverence , and go away , not think himself altogether safe till he have get out of the tower , and shut the door upon the prince . he come and present himself before the king , with a countenance that sufficiently show he have be ill-used , which the king could not behold without concern . ` well , ' say the king , ` in what condition do you find my son ? ' ` Sir , ' answer the vizier , ` what the slave report to you majesty be but too true . ' he then begin to relate he interview with Camaralzaman , how he fly into a passion upon he endeavor to persuade he it be impossible that the lady he speak of should have get in ; the ill-treatment he have receive from he ; how he have be use , and by what mean he make he escape . the king , the more concerned as he love the prince with excessive tenderness , resolve to find out the truth of this matter , and therefore propose himself to go and see he son in the tower , accompany by the grand vizier . Prince Camaralzaman receive the king he father in the tower with great respect . the king sit down , and , after he have make he son the prince sit down by he , put several question to he , which he answer with great good sense . the king every now and then look at the grand vizier , as intimate that he do not find he son have lose he wit , but rather think he have lose he . the king at length speak of the lady to the prince . ` my son , ' say he , ` I desire you to tell I what lady it be that come here , as I have be tell . ' ` Sir , ' answer Camaralzaman , ` I beg of you majesty not to give I more vexation on that head , but rather to oblige I by let I have she in marriage : this young lady have charm I . I be ready to receive she at you hand with the deepest gratitude . ' the king be surprise at this answer of the prince , so remote , as he think , from the good sense he have show before . ` my son , ' say he to he , ` you fill I with the greatest astonishment imaginable by what you now say to I ; I declare to you by my crown , that be to devolve upon you after I , I know not one word of the lady you mention ; and if any such have come to you , it be altogether without my knowledge . but how could she get into this tower without my consent ? for whatever my grand vizier tell you , it be only to appease you : it must therefore be a mere dream ; and I beg of you not to believe otherwise , but to recover you sens . ' ` Sir , ' reply the prince , ` I should be for ever unworthy of you majesty 's favor , if I do not give entire credit to what you be pleased to say ; but I humbly beseech you at the same time to give a patient hearing to what I shall say to you , and then to judge whether what I have the honor to tell you be a dream or not . ' then Prince Camaralzaman relate to the king he father after what manner he have be awaken , and the pain he take to awaken the lady without effect , and how he have make the exchange of he ring with that of the lady : show the king the ring , he add , ` Sir , you majesty must need know my ring very well , you have see it so often . after this , I hope you will be convince that I have not lose my sens , as you have be almost make to believe . ' the king be so perfectly convinced of the truth of what he son have be tell he , that he have not a word to say , remain astonished for some time , and not be able to utter a syllable . ` Son , ' at length reply the king , ` after what I have just hear , and what I see by the ring on you finger , I can not doubt but that you have see this lady . would I know who she be , and I would make you happy from this moment , and I should be the happiest father in the world ! but where shall I find she , and how seek for she ? how could she get in here without my consent ? why do she come ? these thing , I must confess , be past my find out . ' so say , and take the prince by the hand , ` come then , my son , ' he say , ` let we go and be miserable together . ' the king then lead he son out of the tower , and convey he to the palace , where he no sooner arrive than in despair he fall ill , and take to he bed ; the king shut himself up with he , and spend many a day in weep , without attend to the affair of he kingdom . the prime minister , who be the only person that have admittance to he , come one day and tell he that the whole court , and even the people , begin to murmur at not see he , and that he do not administer justice every day as he be wont to do . ` I humbly beg you majesty , therefore , ' proceed he , ` to pay they some attention ; I be aware you majesty 's company be a great comfort to the prince , but then you must not run the risk of let all be lose . permit I to propose to you majesty to remove with the prince to the castle in a little island near the port , where you may give audience to you subject twice a week only ; during these absence the prince will be so agreeably divert with the beauty , prospect , and good air of the place , that he will bear they with the less uneasiness . ' the king approve this proposal ; and after the castle , where he have not reside for some time , have be furnish , he remove thither with the prince ; and , except the time that he give audience , as aforesaid , he never leave he , but pass all he time by he son 's pillow , endeavor to comfort he in share he grief . Whilst matter pass thus , the two genie , Danhasch and Caschcasch , have carry the Princess of China back to the palace where the king she father have shut she up . when she awake the next morning , and find by look to the right and leave that Prince Camaralzaman be not by , she cry out with a loud voice to she woman . she nurse , who present herself first , desire to be inform what she would please to have , and if anything disagreeable have happen to she . ` tell I , ' say the princess , ` what be become of the young man whom I love with all my soul ? ' ` Madam , ' reply the nurse , ` we can not understand you highness , unless you will be please to explain yourself . ' ` a young man , the best and most amiable , ' say the princess ` whom I could not awake ; I ask you where he be ? ' ` Madam , ' answer the nurse , ` you highness ask these question to jest with we . I beseech you to rise . ' ` I be in earnest , ' say the princess , ` and I must know where this young man be . ' ` Madam , ' insist the nurse , ` how any man could come without we knowledge we can not imagine , for we all sleep about the door of you chamber , which be lock , and I have the key in my pocket . ' at this the princess lose all patience , and catch she nurse by the hair of she head , and give she two or three sound cuff , she cry , ` you shall tell I where this young man be , old sorceress , or I will beat you brain out . ' the nurse struggle to get from she , and at last succeed ; when she go immediately , with tear in she eye , to complain to the queen she mother , who be not a little surprised to see she in this condition , and ask who have do this . ` Madam , ' begin the nurse , ` you see how the princess have treat I ; she would certainly have murder I , if I have not have the good fortune to escape out of she hand . ' she then begin to tell what have be the cause of all that violent passion in the princess . the queen be surprise to hear it , and could not guess how she come to be so senseless as to take that for a reality which could be no other than a dream . ` you majesty must conclude from all this , madam , ' continue the nurse , ` that the princess be out of she sens . you will think so yourself if you go and see she . ' the queen order the nurse to follow she ; and they go together to the princess 's palace that very moment . the Queen of China sit down by she daughter 's bed-side , immediately upon she arrival in she apartment ; and after she have inform herself about she health , she begin to ask what have make she so angry with she nurse , that she should have treat she in the manner she have do . ` daughter , ' say she , ` this be not right ; and a great princess like you should not suffer herself to be so transport by passion . ' ` Madam , ' reply the princess , ` I plainly perceive you majesty be come to mock I ; but I declare I will never let you rest till you consent I shall marry the young man . you must know where he be , and therefore I beg of you majesty to let he come to I again . ' ` daughter , ' answer the queen , ` you surprise I ; I know nothing of what you talk of . ' then the princess lose all respect for the queen : ` Madam , ' reply she , ` the king my father and you persecute I about marry , when I have no inclination ; I now have a inclination , and I will marry this young man I tell you of , or I will kill myself . ' here the queen endeavor to calm the princess by soft word . ` daughter , ' say she , ` how could any man come to you ? ' but instead of hear she , the princess interrupt she , and fly out into such violence as oblige the queen to leave she , and retire in great affliction to inform the king of all that have pass . the king hearing it have a mind likewise to be satisfy in person ; and come to he daughter 's apartment , ask she if what he have just hear be true . ` Sir , ' reply the princess , ` let we talk no more of that ; I only beseech you majesty to grant I the favor that I may marry the young man . he be the finest and best make youth the sun ever see . I entreat you , do not refuse I . but that you majesty may not longer doubt whether I have see this young man , whether I do not do my utmost to awake he , without succeed , see , if you please , this ring . ' she then reach forth she hand , and show the king a man 's ring on she finger . the king do not know what to make of all this ; but as he have shut she up as mad , he begin to think she more mad than ever : therefore , without say anything more to she , for fear she might do violence to herself or somebody about she , he have she chained , and shut up more closely than before , allow she only the nurse to wait on she , with a good guard at the door . the king , exceedingly concern at this indisposition of he daughter , seek all possible means to get she cure . he assemble he council , and after have acquaint they with the condition she be in , ` if any of you , ' say he , ` be capable of undertake she cure , and succeed , I will give she to he in marriage , and make he heir to my dominion and crown after my decease . ' the desire of marry a handsome young princess , and the hope of one day govern so powerful a kingdom as that of China , have a strange effect on a emir , already advance in age , who be present at this council . as he be well skilled in magic , he offer to cure the king 's daughter , and flatter himself he should succeed . ` I consent , ' say the king , ` but I forget to tell you one thing , and that be , that if you do not succeed you shall lose you head . it would not be reasonable that you should have so great a reward , and yet run no risk on you part ; and what I say to you , ' continue the king , ` I say to all other that shall come after you , that they may consider beforehand what they undertake . ' the emir , however , accept the condition , and the king conduct he to where the princess be . she cover she face as soon as she see they come in , and cry out , ` you majesty surprise I by bring with you a man whom I do not know , and by whom my religion forbid I to let myself be see . ' ` daughter , ' reply the king , ` you need not be scandalize , it be only one of my emir who be come to demand you in marriage . ' ` it be not , I perceive , the person that you have already give I , and whose faith be plight by the ring I wear , ' reply the princess ; ` be not offend that I will never marry any other . ' the emir expect the princess would have say or do some extravagant thing , and be not a little disappointed when he hear she talk so calmly and rationally ; for then he understand what be really the matter . he dare not explain himself to the king , who would not have suffer the princess to give she hand to any other than the person to whom he wish to give she with he own hand . he therefore throw himself at he majesty 's foot , and say , ` after what I have hear and observe , sir , it will be to no purpose for I to think of cure the princess , since I have no remedy suit to she malady , for which reason I humbly submit my life to you majesty 's pleasure . ' the king , enrage at he incapacity and the trouble he have give he , cause he immediately to be behead . some day afterwards , he majesty , unwilling to have it say that he have neglect he daughter 's cure , put forth a proclamation in he capital , to the effect that if there be any physician , astrologer , or magician , who would undertake to restore the princess to she sens , he need only come , and he should be employ , on condition of lose he head if he miscarry . he have the same publish in the other principal city and town of he dominion , and in the court of the prince he neighbor . the first that present himself be a astrologer and magician , whom the king cause to be conduct to the princess 's prison . the astrologer draw forth out of a bag he carry under he arm a astrolabe , a small sphere , a chafing dish , several sort of drug for fumigation , a brass pot , with many other thing , and desire he might have a fire light . the princess demand what all these preparation be for . ` Madam , ' answer the astrologer , ` they be to exorcise the evil spirit that possess you , to shut he up in this pot , and throw he into the sea . ' ` foolish astrologer , ' reply the princess , ` I have no occasion for any of you preparation , but be in my perfect sens , and you alone be mad . if you art can bring he I love to I , I shall be oblige to you ; otherwise you may go about you business , for I have nothing to do with you . ' ` Madam , ' say the astrologer , ` if you case be so , I shall desist from all endeavor , believe that only the king you father can remedy you disaster . ' so put up he apparatus again , he march away , very much concern that he have so easily undertake to cure a imaginary malady . come to give a account to the king of what he have do , he begin thus boldly : ` accord to what you majesty publish in you proclamation , and what you be please to confirm to I yourself , I think the princess be distract , and depend on be able to recover she by the secret I have long be acquaint with , but I soon find that you majesty alone be the physician who can cure she , by give she in marriage the person whom she desire . ' the king be very much enrage at the astrologer , and have he head cut off upon the spot . not to make too long a story of it , a hundred and fifty astrologer , physician , and magician all undergo the same fate , and they head be set up on pole on every gate of the city . the Princess of China 's nurse have a son whose name be Marzavan , and who have be foster-brother to the princess , and bring up with she . they friendship be so great during they childhood , and all the time they have be together , that they treat each other as brother and sister as they grow up , even some time after they separation . this Marzavan , among other study , have from he youth be much addict to judicial astrology , geomancy , and the like secret art , wherein he become exceedingly skilful . not content with what he have learn from master , he travel as soon as he be able to bear the fatigue , and there be hardly any person of note in any science or art but he seek he in the most remote city , and keep company with he long enough to obtain all the information he desire , so great be he thirst after knowledge . after several year ' absence in foreign part on this account , he return to the capital city of he native country , China , where see so many head on the gate by which he enter , he be exceedingly surprised ; and come home he demand for what reason they have be place there , but more especially he inquire after the princess he foster-sister , whom he have not forget . as he could not receive a answer to one inquiry without the other , he hear at length a general account with much sorrow , wait till he could learn more from he mother , the princess 's nurse . although the nurse , mother to Marzavan , be very much take up with the princess , she no sooner hear that she dear son have return than she find time to come out , embrace he , and converse with he a little . have tell he , with tear in she eye , what a sad condition the princess be in , and for what reason the king she father have shut she up , he desire to know of he mother if she could not procure he a private sight of she royal mistress , without the king 's know it . after some pause , she tell he she could say nothing for the present , but if he would meet she the next day at the same hour , she would give he a answer . the nurse know that none could approach the princess but herself without leave of the officer who command the guard at the gate , address herself to he , who she know have be so lately appoint that he could know nothing of what have pass at the court of China . ` you know , ' say she to he , ` I have bring up the princess , and you may likewise have hear that I have a daughter whom I bring up along with she . this daughter have since be marry ; yet the princess still do she the honor to love she , and would fain see she , but without anybody 's perceive she come in or out . ' the nurse would have go on , but the officer cry , ` say no more ; I will with pleasure do anything to oblige the princess ; go and fetch you daughter , or send for she about midnight , and the gate shall be open to you . ' as soon as night come , the nurse go to look for she son Marzavan , and have find he , she dress he so artificially in woman 's clothes that nobody could know he be a man . she carry he along with she , and the officer verily believe it be she daughter , admit they together . the nurse , before she present Marzavan , go to the princess , and say , ` Madam , this be not a woman I have bring to you ; it be my son Marzavan in disguise , newly arrive from he travels , and he have a great desire to kiss you hand , I hope you highness will admit he to that honor . ' ` what ! my brother Marzavan , ' say the princess , with great joy : ` come hither , ' cry she , ` and take off that veil ; for it be not unreasonable , surely , that a brother and a sister should see each other without cover they face . ' Marzavan salute she with profound respect , when she , without give he time to speak , cry out , ` I be rejoice to see you return in good health , after so many year ' absence without send the least account all the while of you welfare , even to you good mother . ' ` Madam , ' reply Marzavan , ` I be infinitely oblige to you highness for you goodness in rejoice at my health : I hope to have hear a better account of yours than what to my great affliction I be now witness of . nevertheless , I can not but rejoice that I be come seasonably enough to bring you highness that remedy of which you stand so much in need ; and though I should reap no other fruit of my study and long voyage , I should think myself fully recompense . ' speak these word , Marzavan draw forth out of he pocket a book and other thing , which he judge necessary to be use , accord to the account he have have from he mother of the princess 's illness . the princess , see he make all these preparation , cry out , ` what ! brother , be you then one of those that believe I mad ? undeceive yourself and hear I . ' the princess then begin to relate to Marzavan all the particulars of she story , without omit the least circumstance , even to the ring which be exchange for hers , and which she show he . after the princess have do speaking , Marzavan , fill with wonder and astonishment , continue for some time with he eye fix on the ground , without speak a word ; but at length he lift up he head and say , ` if it be as you highness say , which I do not in the least doubt , I do not despair of procure you the satisfaction you desire ; but I must first entreat you highness to arm yourself with patience for some time longer , till I shall return after I have travel over kingdom which I have not yet visit ; and when you hear of my return , be assure that the object of you wish be not far off . ' so say , Marzavan take leave of the princess , and set out next morning on he intended journey . he travel from city to city , from province to province , and from island to island , and in every place he pass through he could hear of nothing but the Princess Badoura -lrb-B- which be the Princess of China 's name -rrb-B- , and she history . about four month afterwards , Marzavan arrive at Torf , a seaport town , great and populous , where he no more hear of the Princess Badoura , but where all the talk be of Prince Camaralzaman , who be ill , and whose history very much resembled hers . Marzavan be extremely delighted to hear this , and inform himself of the place where the prince be to be find . there be two way to it ; one by land and sea , the other by sea only , which be the shortest way . Marzavan choose the latter , and embark on board a merchant ship , he arrive safe in sight of the capital ; but , just before it enter the port , the ship strike against a rock through the unskilfulness of the pilot , and founder . it go down in sight of Prince Camaralzaman 's castle , where be at that time the king and he grand vizier . Marzavan could swim very well , and immediately on the ship 's sinking cast himself into the sea , and get safe to the shore under the castle , where he be soon relieve by the grand vizier 's order . after he have change he clothes and be well treat , and have recover , he be introduce to the grand vizier , who have send for he . Marzavan be a young man of good air and address , this minister receive he very civilly ; and when he hear he give such just and fitting answer to what be ask of he , conceive a great esteem for he . he also gradually perceive that he possess a great deal of knowledge , and therefore say to he , ` from what I can understand , I perceive you be no common man ; you have travel a great way : would to God you have learn any secret for cure a certain sick person , who have greatly afflict this court for a long while ! ' Marzavan reply that if he know what malady it be , he might perhaps find a remedy for it . then the grand vizier relate to he the whole story of Prince Camaralzaman from its origin , and conceal nothing ; he birth , he education , the inclination the king he father have to see he marry early , he resistance and extraordinary aversion to marriage , he disobey he father in full council , he imprisonment , he pretended extravagancy in prison , which be afterwards change into a violent madness for a certain unknown lady , who , he pretend , have exchange a ring with he ; though , for he part , he verily believe there be no such person in the world . Marzavan give great attention to all the grand vizier say ; and be infinitely rejoice to find that , by means of he shipwreck , he have so fortunately light on the person he be look after . he see no reason to doubt that Prince Camaralzaman be the man , and the Princess of China the lady ; therefore , without explain himself further to the vizier , he desire to see he , that he might be better able to judge of he illness and its cure . ` follow I , ' say the grand vizier , ` and you will find the king with he , who have already desire that I should introduce you . ' the first thing that strike Marzavan on enter the prince 's chamber be to find he upon he bed languish , and with he eye shut . although he see he in that condition , and although the king he father be sit by he , he could not help cry out , ` be there ever a greater resemblance ! ' he mean to the Princess of China ; for it seem the princess and prince be much alike . the word of Marzavan excite the prince 's curiosity so far that he open he eye and look at he . Marzavan , who have a ready wit , lay hold of that opportunity , and make he compliment in verse extempore : but in such a disguised manner , that neither the king nor grand vizier understand anything of the matter . however , he represent so nicely what have happen to he with the Princess of China , that the prince have no reason to doubt that he know she , and could give he tiding of she . this make he so joyful , that the effect of it show themselves in he eye and look . after Marzavan have finish he compliment in verse which surprise Prince Camaralzaman so agreeably , he highness take the liberty to make a sign to the king he father , to go from the place where he be , and let Marzavan sit by he . the king , overjoy at this alteration , which give he hope of he son 's speedy recovery , quit he place , and take Marzavan by the hand , lead he to it . then he majesty demand of he who he be , and whence he come . and upon Marzavan 's answering that he be a subject of China and come from that kingdom , the king cry out , ` Heaven grant that you may be able to cure my son of this profound melancholy , and I shall be eternally oblige to you ; all the world shall see how handsomely I will reward you . ' have say thus , he leave the prince to converse at full liberty with the stranger , whilst he go and rejoice with the grand vizier . Marzavan lean down to the prince , speak low in he ear , thus : ` Prince , ' say he , ` it be time you should cease to grieve . the lady for whom you suffer be the Princess Badoura , daughter of Gaiour , King of China . this I can assure you highness from what she have tell I of she adventure , and what I have learn of yours . she have suffer no less on you account than you have on hers . ' here he begin to relate all that he know of the princess 's story , from the night of they extraordinary interview . he omit not to acquaint he how the king have treat those who have fail in they pretension to cure the princess of she indisposition . ` but you highness be the only person , ' add he , ` that can cure she effectually , and may present yourself without fear . however , before you undertake so great a voyage , I would have you perfectly recover , and then we will take such measure as be necessary . think then immediately of the recovery of you health . ' this discourse have a marvellous effect on the prince . he find such great relief that he feel he have strength to rise , and begged leave of he father to dress himself , with such a air as give the old king incredible pleasure . the king could not refrain from embrace Marzavan , without inquire into the means he have use to produce this wonderful effect , and soon after go out of the prince 's chamber with the grand vizier to publish this agreeable news . he order public rejoicing for several day together , and give great largess to he officer and the people , alms to the poor , and cause the prisoner to be set at liberty throughout he kingdom . the joy be soon general in the capital and every corner of he dominion . Prince Camaralzaman , though extremely weaken by almost continual want of sleep and long abstinence from almost all food , soon recover he health . when he find himself in a condition to undertake the voyage , he take Marzavan aside , and say , ` Dear Marzavan , it be now time to perform the promise you have make I . I burn with impatience to see the charming princess , and if we do not set out on we journey immediately I shall soon relapse into my former condition . one thing still trouble I , ' continue he , ` and that be the difficulty I shall meet with in get leave of my father to go . this would be a cruel disappointment to I , if you do not contrive a way to prevent it . you see he scarcely ever leave I . ' at these word the prince fall to weep : and Marzavan say , ' I foresee this difficulty ; let not you highness be grieve at that , for I will undertake to prevent it . my principal design in this voyage be to deliver the Princess of China from she malady , and this from all the reason of mutual affection which we have bear to each other from we birth , besides the zeal and affection I otherwise owe she ; and I should be want in my duty to she , if I do not do my best endeavor to effect she cure and yours , and exert my utmost skill . this then be the means I have contrived to obtain you liberty . you have not stir abroad for some time , therefore let the king you father understand you have a mind to take the air , and ask he leave to go out on a hunting party for two or three day with I . no doubt he will grant you request ; when he have do so , order two good horse to be get ready , one to mount , the other to change , and leave the rest to I . ' next day Prince Camaralzarnan take he opportunity . he tell the king he be desirous to take the air , and , if he please , would go and hunt for two or three day with Marzavan . the king give he consent , but bid he be sure not to stay out above one night , since too much exercise at first might impair he health , and a too long absence create he majesty uneasiness . he then order he to choose the best horse in he stable , and himself take particular care that nothing should be want . when all be ready , he majesty embrace the prince , and have recommend the care of he to Marzavan , he let he go . Prince Camaralzaman and Marzavan be soon mount , when , to amuse the two groom that lead the fresh horse , they make as if they would hunt , and so get as far off the city and out of the road as be possible . when night begin to approach , they alight at a caravansera or inn , where they sup , and sleep till about midnight ; then Marzavan awaken the prince without awaken the groom , and desire he highness to let he have he suit , and to take another for himself , which be bring in he baggage . thus equip , they mount the fresh horse , and after Marzavan have take one of the groom 's horse by the bridle , they set out as hard as they horse could go . at daybreak they be in a forest , where , come to the meeting of four road , Marzavan desire the prince to wait for he a little , and go into the forest . he then kill the groom 's horse , and after have tear the prince 's suit , which he have put off , he besmear it with blood and throw it into the highway . the prince demand he reason for what he have do . he tell he highness he be sure the king he father would no sooner find that he do not return , and come to know that he have depart without the groom , than he would suspect something , and immediately send people in quest of they . ` they that come to this place , ' say he , ` and find these blood-stained clothes , will conclude you be devour by wild beast , and that I have escape to avoid the king 's anger . the king , persuade himself that you be dead will stop further pursuit , and we may have leisure to continue we journey without fear of be follow . I must confess , ' continue Marzavan , ` that this be a violent way of proceeding , to alarm a old father with the death of he son , whom he love so passionately ; but he joy will be the greater when he hear you be alive and happy . ' ` Brave Marzavan , ' reply the prince , ' I can not but approve such a ingenious stratagem , or sufficiently admire you conduct : I be under fresh obligation to you for it . ' the prince and Marzavan , well provide with cash for they expense , continue they journey both by land and sea , and find no other obstacle but the length of time which it necessarily take up . they , however , arrive at length at the capital of China , where Marzavan , instead of go to he lodgings , carry the prince to a public inn . they tarry there incognito for three day to rest themselves after the fatigue of the voyage ; during which time Marzavan cause a astrologer 's dress to be make for the prince . the three day be expire , the prince put on he astrologer 's habit ; and Marzavan leave he to go and acquaint he mother , the Princess Badoura 's nurse , of he arrival , to the end that she might inform the Princess . Prince Camaralzaman , instruct by Marzavan as to what he be to do , and provide with all he want as a astrologer , come next morning to the gate of the king 's palace , before the guard and porter , and cry aloud , ` I be a astrologer , and be come to effect a cure on the estimable Princess Badoura , daughter of the most high and mighty monarch Gaiour , King of China , on the condition propose by he majesty , to marry she if I succeed , or else to lose my life for my fruitless and presumptuous attempt . ' besides the guard and porter at the gate , this draw together a great number of people about Prince Camaralzaman . no physician , astrologer , nor magician have appear for a long time , deter by the many tragic example of ill success that appear before they eye ; it be therefore think that there be no more man of these profession in the world , or that there be no more so mad as those that have go before they . the prince 's good mien , noble air , and bloom youth make everybody that see he pity he . ` what mean you , sir , ' say some that be nearest to he , ` thus to expose a life of such promising expectation to certain death ? can not the head you see on all the gate of this city deter you from such a undertaking ? consider what you do : abandon this rash attempt , and be go . ' the prince continue firm , notwithstanding all these remonstrance ; and as he see nobody come to introduce he , he repeat the same cry with a boldness that make everybody tremble . then they all cry , ` let he alone , he be resolve to die ; God have mercy upon he youth and he soul ! ' he then proceed to cry out a third time in the same manner , when the grand vizier come in person , and introduce he to the King of China . as soon as the prince come into the king 's presence , he bow and kiss the ground . the king , who , of all that have hitherto presumptuously expose they life on this occasion , have not see one worthy to cast he eye upon , feel real compassion for Prince Camaralzaman on account of the danger he be about to undergo . but as he think he more deserving than ordinary , he show he more honor , and make he come and sit by he . ` young man , ' say he , ' I can hardly believe that you , at this age , can have acquire experience enough to dare attempt the cure of my daughter . I wish you may succeed ; and would give she to you in marriage with all my heart , with the greatest joy , more willingly than I should have do to other that have offer themselves before you ; but I must declare to you at the same time , with great concern , that if you do not succeed in you attempt , notwithstanding you noble appearance and you youth you must lose you head . ' ` Sir , ' reply the prince , ` I be under infinite obligation to you majesty for the honor you design I , and the great goodness you show to a stranger ; but I desire you majesty to believe that I would not have come from so remote a country as I have do , the name of which perhaps may be unknown in you dominion , if I have not be certain of the cure I propose . what would not the world say of my fickleness , if , after such great fatigue and danger as I have undergo on this account , I should abandon the enterprise ? even you majesty would soon lose that esteem you have conceive for I . if I must die , sir , I shall die with the satisfaction of not have lose you esteem after I have merit it . I beseech you majesty therefore to keep I no longer impatient to display the certainty of my art . ' then the king command the officer who have the custody of the princess to introduce Prince Camaralzaman into she apartment : but before he would let he go , he remind he once more that he be at liberty to renounce he design ; yet the prince pay no heed , but , with astonishing resolution and eagerness , follow the officer . when they come to a long gallery , at the end of which be the princess 's apartment , the prince , who see himself so near the object of the wish which have occasion he so many tear , push on , and get before the officer . the officer , redouble he pace , with much ado get up with he . ` whither away so fast ? ' cry he , take he by the arm ; ` you can not get in without I : and it would seem that you have a great desire for death thus to run to it headlong . not one of all those many astrologer and magician I have introduce before make such haste as yourself to a place whither I fear you will come but too soon . ' ` friend , ' reply the Prince , look earnestly at the officer , and continue he pace , ` this be because none of the astrologer you speak of be so sure of they art as I be of mine : they be certain , indeed , that they would die if they do not succeed , but they have no certainty of they success . on this account they have reason to tremble on approach the place whither I go , and where I be sure to find my happiness . ' he have just speak these word as he be at the door . the officer open it , and introduce he into a great hall , whence be a entrance into the princess 's chamber , divide from it only by a piece of tapestry . Prince Camaralzaman stopt before he enter , speak softly to the officer for fear of be hear in the princess 's chamber . ` to convince you , ' say he , ` that there be neither presumption , nor whim , nor youthful conceit in my undertaking , I leave it to you own desire whether I should cure the princess in you presence , or where we be , without go any further ? ' the officer be amaze to hear the prince talk to he with such confidence : he leave off insulting he , and say seriously , ` it be no matter whether you do it here or there , provide the business be do : cure she how you will , you will get immortal honor by it , not only in this court , but over all the world . ' the prince reply , ` it will be best then to cure she without see she , that you may be witness of my skill : notwithstanding my impatience to see a princess of she rank , who be to be my wife , yet , out of respect to you , I will deprive myself of that pleasure for a little while . ' he be furnish with everything suitable for a astrologer to carry about he ; and take pen , ink , and paper out of he pocket , he write a letter to the princess . when the prince have finish he letter , he fold it up , and enclose in it the princess 's ring , without let the officer see what he do . when he have seal it , he give it to he : ` there , friend , ' say he , ` carry it to you mistress ; if it do not cure she as soon as she read it , and see what be inclose in it , I give you leave to tell everybody that I be the most ignorant and impudent astrologer that ever be , be , or shall be . ' the officer , enter the Princess of China 's chamber , give she the packet he receive from Prince Camaralzaman . ` Madam , ' say he , ` the boldest astrologer that ever live , if I be not mistake , have arrive here , and pretend that on reading this letter and see what be in it you will be cure ; I wish he may prove neither a liar nor a impostor . ' the Princess Badoura take the letter , and open it with a great deal of indifference , but when she see the ring , she have not patience to read it through ; she rise hastily , break the chain that hold she , run to the door and open it . she know the prince as soon as she see he , and he know she ; they at once embrace each other tenderly , without be able to speak for excess of joy : they look on one another a long time , wonder how they meet again after they first interview . the princess 's nurse , who run to the door with she , make they come into she chamber , where the Princess Badoura give the prince she ring , say , ` take it ; I can not keep it without restore yours , which I will never part with ; neither can it be in better hand . ' the officer immediately go to tell the king of China what have happen . ` Sir , ' say he , ` all the astrologer and doctor who have hitherto pretend to cure the princess be fool in comparison with the last . he make use neither of scheme nor spell or perfume , or anything else , but cure she without see she . ' then he tell the king how he do it . the monarch be agreeably surprise at the news , and go forthwith to the princess 's chamber embrace she : he afterwards embrace the prince , and , take he hand , join it to the princess 's . ` happy stranger , ' say the king , ` whoever you be , I will keep my word , and give you my daughter to marry ; though , from what I see in you , it be impossible for I to believe that you be really what you appear to be , and would have I believe you . ' Prince Camaralzaman thank the king in the most humble tone , that he might the better show he gratitude . ` as for my person , ' say he , ` I must own I be not a astrologer , as you majesty very judiciously guess ; I only put on the habit of one , that I might succeed more easily in my ambition to be ally to the most potent monarch in the world . I be bear a prince , and the son of a king and queen ; my name be Camaralzaman ; my father be Schahzaman , who now reign over the island that be well know by the name of the Islands of the Children of Khaledan . ' he then tell he he history . when the prince have do speaking , the king say to he , ` this history be so extraordinary that it deserve to be know to posterity ; I will take care it shall be ; and the original be deposit in my royal archive , I will spread copy of it abroad , that my own kingdom and the kingdom around I may know it . ' the marriage be solemnize the same day , and the rejoicing for it be universal all over the empire of China . nor be Marzavan forget : the king immediately give he a honorable post in he court , and a promise of further advancement ; and hold continual feasting for several month , to show he joy .