PUNCHKIN Indian Writer once upon a time there be a Raja who have seven beautiful daughter . they be all good girl ; but the youngest , name Balna , be more clever than the rest . the Raja 's wife die when they be quite little child , so these seven poor PrincessesS be leave with no mother to take care of they . the Raja 's daughter take it by turn to cook they father 's dinner every day , whilst he be absent deliberate with he minister on the affair of the nation . about this time the Prudhan die , leave a widow and one daughter ; and every day , every day , when the seven princess be prepare they father 's dinner , the Prudhan 's widow and daughter would come and beg for a little fire from the hearth . then Balna use to say to she sister , `` send that woman away ; send she away . let she get the fire at she own house . what do she want with ours ? if we allow she to come here , we shall suffer for it some day . '' but the other sister would answer , `` be quiet , Balna ; why must you always be quarrel with this poor woman ? let she take some fire if she like . '' then the Prudhan 's widow use to go to the hearth and take a few stick from it ; and whilst no one be look , she would quickly throw some mud into the midst of the dish which be be prepare for the Raja 's dinner . now the Raja be very fond of he daughter . ever since they mother 's death they have cook he dinner with they own hand , in order to avoid the danger of he be poison by he enemy . so , when he find the mud mix up with he dinner , he think it must arise from they carelessness , as it do not seem likely that any one should have put mud there on purpose ; but be very kind he do not like to reprove they for it , although this spoiling of the curry be repeat many successive day . at last , one day , he determine to hide , and watch he daughter cooking , and see how it all happen ; so he go into the next room , and watch they through a hole in the wall . there he see he seven daughter carefully wash the rice and prepare the curry , and as each dish be complete , they put it by the fire ready to be cook . next he notice the Prudhan 's widow come to the door , and beg for a few stick from the fire to cook she dinner with . Balna turn to she , angrily , and say , `` why do not you keep fuel in you own house , and not come here every day and take ours ? sister , do not give this woman any more wood ; let she buy it for herself . '' then the eldest sister answer , `` Balna , let the poor woman take the wood and the fire ; she do we no harm . '' but Balna reply , `` if you let she come here so often , maybe she will do we some harm , and make we sorry for it , some day . '' the Raja then see the Prudhan 's widow go to the place where all he dinner be nicely prepare , and , as she take the wood , she throw a little mud into each of the dish . at this he be very angry , and send to have the woman seize and bring before he . but when the widow come , she tell he that she have play this trick because she want to gain a audience with he ; and she speak so cleverly , and please he so well with she cunning word , that instead of punish she , the Raja marry she , and make she he Ranee , and she and she daughter come to live in the palace . now the new Ranee hate the seven poor PrincessesS , and want to get they , if possible , out of the way , in order that she daughter might have all they riches , and live in the palace as Princess in they place ; and instead of be grateful to they for they kindness to she , she do all she could to make they miserable . she give they nothing but bread to eat , and very little of that , and very little water to drink ; so these seven poor little princess , who have be accustom to have everything comfortable about they , and good food and good clothes all they life long , be very miserable and unhappy ; and they use to go out every day and sit by they dead mother 's tomb and cry -- and say : `` oh mother , mother , can not you see you poor child , how unhappy we be , and how we be starve by we cruel step-mother ? '' one day , whilst they be thus sob and cry , lo and behold ! a beautiful pomelo tree grow up out of the grave , cover with fresh ripe pomelo , and the child satisfy they hunger by eat some of the fruit , and every day after this , instead of try to eat the bad dinner they step-mother provide for they , they use to go out to they mother 's grave and eat the pomelo which grow there on the beautiful tree . then the Ranee say to she daughter , `` I can not tell how it be , every day those seven girl say they do not want any dinner , and will not eat any ; and yet they never grow thin nor look ill ; they look better than you do . I can not tell how it be . '' and she bid she watch the seven Princesses , and see if any one give they anything to eat . so next day , when the PrincessesS go to they mother 's grave , and be eat the beautiful pomelo , the Prudhan 's daughter follow they , and see they gather the fruit . then Balna say to she sister , `` do you not see that girl watch we ? let we drive she away , or hide the pomelo , else she will go and tell she mother all about it , and that will be very bad for we . '' but the other sister say , `` oh no , do not be unkind , Balna . the girl would never be so cruel as to tell she mother . let we rather invite she to come and have some of the fruit . '' and call she to they , they give she one of the pomelo . no sooner have she eat it , however , than the Prudhan 's daughter go home and say to she mother , `` I do not wonder the seven PrincessesS will not eat the dinner you prepare for they , for by they mother 's grave there grow a beautiful pomelo tree , and they go there every day and eat the pomelo . I eat one , and it be the nicest I have ever taste . '' the cruel Ranee be much vex at hearing this , and all next day she stay in she room , and tell the Raja that she have a very bad headache . the Raja be deeply grieved , and say to he wife , `` what can I do for you ? '' she answer , `` there be only one thing that will make my headache well . by you dead wife 's tomb there grow a fine pomelo tree ; you must bring that here , and boil it , root and branch , and put a little of the water in which it have be boil , on my forehead , and that will cure my headache . '' so the Raja send he servant , and have the beautiful pomelo tree pull up by the root , and do as the Ranee desire ; and when some of the water , in which it have be boil , be put on she forehead , she say she headache be go and she feel quite well . next day , when the seven PrincessesS go as usual to the grave of they mother , the pomelo tree have disappear . then they all begin to cry very bitterly . now there be by the Ranee 's tomb a small tank , and as they be cry they see that the tank be fill with a rich cream-like substance , which quickly harden into a thick white cake . at see this all the PrincessesS be very glad , and they eat some of the cake , and like it ; and next day the same thing happen , and so it go on for many day . every morning the PrincessesS go to they mother 's grave , and find the little tank fill with the nourishing cream-like cake . then the cruel step-mother say to she daughter : `` I can not tell how it be , I have have the pomelo tree which use to grow by the Ranee 's grave destroy , and yet the PrincessesS grow no thinner , nor look more sad , though they never eat the dinner I give they . I can not tell how it be ! '' and she daughter say , `` I will watch . '' next day , while the PrincessesS be eat the cream cake , who should come by but they step-mother 's daughter . Balna see she first , and say , `` see , sister , there come that girl again . let we sit round the edge of the tank and not allow she to see it , for if we give she some of we cake , she will go and tell she mother ; and that will be very unfortunate for we . '' the other sister , however , think Balna unnecessarily suspicious , and instead of follow she advice , they give the Prudhan 's daughter some of the cake , and she go home and tell she mother all about it . the Ranee , on hearing how well the PrincessesS fare , be exceedingly angry , and send she servant to pull down the dead Ranee 's tomb , and fill the little tank with the ruin . and not content with this , she next day pretend to be very , very ill -- in fact , at the point of death -- and when the Raja be much grieved , and ask she whether it be in he power to procure she any remedy , she say to he : `` only one thing can save my life , but I know you will not do it . '' he reply , `` yes , whatever it be , I will do it . '' she then say , `` to save my life , you must kill the seven daughter of you first wife , and put some of they blood on my forehead and on the palm of my hand , and they death will be my life . '' at these word the Raja be very sorrowful ; but because he fear to break he word , he go out with a heavy heart to find he daughter . he find they cry by the ruin of they mother 's grave . then , feel he could not kill they , the Raja speak kindly to they , and tell they to come out into the jungle with he ; and there he make a fire and cook some rice , and give it to they . but in the afternoon , it be very hot , the seven PrincessesS all fall asleep , and when he see they be fast asleep , the Raja , they father , steal away and leave they -lrb-B- for he fear he wife -rrb-B- , say to himself : `` it be better my poor daughter should die here , than be kill by they step-mother . '' he then shoot a deer , and return home , put some of its blood on the forehead and hand of the Ranee , and she think then that he have really kill the PrincessesS , and say she feel quite well . meantime the seven PrincessesS awake , and when they find themselves all alone in the thick jungle they be much frightened , and begin to call out as loud as they could , in hope of make they father hear ; but he be by that time far away , and would not have be able to hear they even have they voice be as loud as thunder . it so happen that this very day the seven young son of a neighbouring Raja chance to be hunting in that same jungle , and as they be return home , after the day 's sport be over , the youngest Prince say to he brother `` Stop , I think I hear some one cry and call out . do you not hear voice ? let we go in the direction of the sound , and find out what it be . '' so the seven PrincesS ride through the wood until they come to the place where the seven PrincessesS sit cry and wring they hand . at the sight of they the young PrincesS be very much astonished , and still more so on learn they story ; and they settle that each should take one of these poor forlorn lady home with he , and marry she . so the first and eldest Prince take the eldest Princess home with he , and marry she . and the second take the second ; and the third take the third ; and the fourth take the fourth ; and the fifth take the fifth ; and the sixth take the sixth ; and the seventh , and the handsomest of all , take the beautiful Balna . and when they get to they own land , there be great rejoicing throughout the kingdom , at the marriage of the seven young PrincesS to seven such beautiful princess . about a year after this Balna have a little son , and he uncle and aunt be so fond of the boy that it be as if he have seven father and seven mother . none of the other Princes and Princesses have any child , so the son of the seventh Prince and Balna be acknowledge they heir by all the rest . they have thus live very happily for some time , when one fine day the seventh Prince -lrb-B- Balna 's husband -rrb-B- say he would go out hunting , and away he go ; and they wait long for he , but he never come back . then he six brother say they would go and see what have become of he ; and they go away , but they also do not return . and the seven PrincessesS grieve very much , for they fear that they kind husband must have be kill . one day , not long after this have happen , as Balna be rock she baby 's cradle , and whilst she sister be work in the room below , there come to the palace door a man in a long black dress , who say that he be a Fakir , and come to beg . the servant say to he , `` you can not go into the palace -- the Raja 's son have all go away ; we think they must be dead , and they widow can not be interrupt by you beg . '' but he say , `` I be a holy man , you must let I in . '' then the stupid servant let he walk through the palace , but they do not know that this be no Fakir , but a wicked magician name Punchkin . Punchkin Fakir wander through the palace , and see many beautiful thing there , till at last he reach the room where Balna sit sing beside she little boy 's cradle . the magician think she more beautiful than all the other beautiful thing he have see , insomuch that he ask she to go home with he and to marry he . but she say , `` my husband , I fear , be dead , but my little boy be still quite young ; I will stay here and teach he to grow up a clever man , and when he be grow up he shall go out into the world , and try and learn tiding of he father . Heaven forbid that I should ever leave he , or marry you . '' at these word the magician be very angry , and turn she into a little black dog , and lead she away ; say , `` since you will not come with I of you own free will , I will make you . '' so the poor Princess be drag away , without any power of effect a escape , or of let she sister know what have become of she . as Punchkin pass through the palace gate the servant say to he , `` where do you get that pretty little dog ? '' and he answer , `` one of the PrincessesS give it to I as a present . '' at hearing which they let he go without further question . soon after this , the six elder PrincessesS hear the little baby , they nephew , begin to cry , and when they go upstairs they be much surprise to find he all alone , and Balna nowhere to be see . then they question the servant , and when they hear of the Fakir and the little black dog , they guess what have happen , and send in every direction seek they , but neither the Fakir nor the dog be to be find . what could six poor woman do ? they give up all hope of ever see they kind husband , and they sister , and she husband , again , and devoted themselves thenceforward to teaching and take care of they little nephew . thus time go on , till Balna 's son be fourteen year old . then , one day , he aunt tell he the history of the family ; and no sooner do he hear it , than he be seize with a great desire to go in search of he father and mother and uncle , and if he could find they alive to bring they home again . he aunt , on learn he determination , be much alarm and try to dissuade he , say , `` we have lose we husband , and we sister and she husband , and you be now we sole hope ; if you go away , what shall we do ? '' but he reply , `` I pray you not to be discourage ; I will return soon , and if it be possible bring my father and mother and uncle with I . '' so he set out on he travels ; but for some month he could learn nothing to help he in he search . at last , after he have journey many hundred of weary mile , and become almost hopeless of ever hear anything further of he parent , he one day come to a country that seem full of stone , and rock , and tree , and there he see a large palace with a high tower ; hard by which be a Malee 's little house . as he be look about , the Malee 's wife see he , and run out of the house and say , `` my dear boy , who be you that dare venture to this dangerous place ? '' he answer , `` I be a Raja 's son , and I come in search of my father , and my uncle , and my mother whom a wicked enchanter bewitch . '' then the Malee 's wife say , `` this country and this palace belong to a great enchanter ; he be all powerful , and if any one displease he , he can turn they into stone and tree . all the rock and tree you see here be live people once , and the magician turn they to what they now be . some time ago a Raja 's son come here , and shortly afterwards come he six brother , and they be all turn into stone and tree ; and these be not the only unfortunate one , for up in that tower live a beautiful Princess , whom the magician have keep prisoner there for twelve year , because she hate he and will not marry he . '' then the little Prince thought , `` these must be my parent and my uncle . I have find what I seek at last . '' so he tell he story to the Malee 's wife , and beg she to help he to remain in that place awhile and inquire further concern the unhappy people she mention ; and she promise to befriend he , and advise he disguise himself lest the magician should see he , and turn he likewise into stone . to this the Prince agree . so the Malee 's wife dress he up in a saree , and pretend that he be she daughter . one day , not long after this , as the magician be walk in he garden he see the little girl -lrb-B- as he think -rrb-B- play about , and ask she who she be . she tell he she be the Malee 's daughter , and the magician say , `` you be a pretty little girl , and to-morrow you shall take a present of flower from I to the beautiful lady who live in the tower . '' the young Prince be much delighted at hear this , and go immediately to inform the Malee 's wife ; after consultation with whom he determine that it would be more safe for he to retain he disguise , and trust to the chance of a favourable opportunity for establish some communication with he mother , if it be indeed she . now it happen that at Balna 's marriage she husband have give she a small gold ring on which she name be engrave , and she have put it on she little son 's finger when he be a baby , and afterwards when he be older he aunt have have it enlarged for he , so that he be still able to wear it . the Malee 's wife advise he to fasten the well-known treasure to one of the bouquet he present to he mother , and trust to she recognize it . this be not to be do without difficulty , as such a strict watch be keep over the poor Princess -lrb-B- for fear of she ever establish communication with she friend -rrb-B- , that though the suppose Malee 's daughter be permit to take she flower every day , the magician or one of he slave be always in the room at the time . at last one day , however , opportunity favor he , and when no one be look , the boy tie the ring to a nosegay , and throw it at Balna 's foot . it fall with a clang on the floor , and Balna , look to see what make the strange sound , find the little ring tie to the flower . on recognize it , she at once believe the story she son tell she of he long search , and beg he to advise she as to what she have better do ; at the same time entreat he on no account to endanger he life by try to rescue she . she tell he that for twelve long year the magician have keep she shut up in the tower because she refuse to marry he , and she be so closely guard that she see no hope of release . now Balna 's son be a bright , clever boy , so he say , `` do not fear , dear mother ; the first thing to do be to discover how far the magician 's power extend , in order that we may be able to liberate my father and uncle , whom he have imprison in the form of rock and tree . you have speak to he angrily for twelve long year ; now rather speak kindly . tell he you have give up all hope of again see the husband you have so long mourn , and say you be willing to marry he . then endeavor to find out what he power consist in , and whether he be immortal , or can be put to death . '' Balna determine to take she son 's advice ; and the next day send for Punchkin , and speak to he as have be suggest . the magician , greatly delighted , beg she to allow the wedding to take place as soon as possible . but she tell he that before she marry he he must allow she a little more time , in which she might make he acquaintance , and that , after be enemy so long , they friendship could but strengthen by degree . `` and do tell I , '' she say , `` be you quite immortal ? can death never touch you ? and be you too great a enchanter ever to feel human suffering ? '' `` why do you ask ? '' say he . `` because , '' she reply , `` if I be to be you wife , I would fain know all about you , in order , if any calamity threaten you , to overcome , or if possible to avert it . '' `` it be true , '' he add , `` that I be not as other . Far , far away , hundred of thousand of mile from this , there lie a desolate country cover with thick jungle . in the midst of the jungle grow a circle of palm tree , and in the center of the circle stand six chattee full of water , pile one above another : below the sixth chattee be a small cage which contain a little green parrot ; on the life of the parrot depend my life ; and if the parrot be kill I must die . it be , however , '' he add , `` impossible that the parrot should sustain any injury , both on account of the inaccessibility of the country , and because , by my appointment , many thousand genie surround the palm tree , and kill all who approach the place . '' Balna tell she son what Punchkin have say ; but at the same time implore he to give up all idea of get the parrot . the Prince , however , reply , `` Mother , unless I can get hold of that parrot , you , and my father , and uncle , can not be liberate : be not afraid , I will shortly return . do you , meantime , keep the magician in good humor -- still put off you marriage with he on various pretext ; and before he find out the cause of delay , I will be here . '' so say , he go away . many , many weary mile do he travel , till at last he come to a thick jungle ; and , be very tired , sit down under a tree and fall asleep . he be awaken by a soft rustling sound , and look about he , see a large serpent which be make its way to a eagle 's nest build in the tree under which he lay , and in the nest be two young eagle . the Prince see the danger of the young bird , draw he sword , and kill the serpent ; at the same moment a rush sound be hear in the air , and the two old eagle , who have be out hunting for food for they young one , return . they quickly see the dead serpent and the young Prince standing over it ; and the old mother eagle say to he , `` dear boy , for many year all we young one have be devour by that cruel serpent ; you have now save the life of we child ; whenever you be in need , therefore , send to we and we will help you ; and as for these little eagle , take they , and let they be you servant . '' at this the Prince be very glad , and the two eaglet cross they wing , on which he mount ; and they carry he far , far away over the thick jungle , until he come to the place where grow the circle of palm tree , in the midst of which stand the six chattee full of water . it be the middle of the day , and the heat be very great . all round the tree be the genie fast asleep ; nevertheless , there be such countless thousand of they , that it would have be quite impossible for any one to walk through they rank to the place ; down swoop the strong-winged eaglet -- down jump the Prince ; in a instant he have overthrow the six chattee full of water , and seize the little green parrot , which he roll up in he cloak ; while , as he mount again into the air , all the genie below awake , and find they treasure go , set up a wild and melancholy howl . away , away fly the little eagle , till they come to they home in the great tree ; then the Prince say to the old eagle , `` take back you little one ; they have do I good service ; if ever again I stand in need of help , I will not fail to come to you . '' he then continue he journey on foot till he arrive once more at the magician 's palace , where he sit down at the door and begin play with the parrot . Punchkin see he , and come to he quickly , and say , `` my boy , where do you get that parrot ? give it to I , I pray you . '' but the Prince answer , `` oh no , I can not give away my parrot , it be a great pet of mine ; I have have it many year . '' then the magician say , `` if it be a old favorite , I can understand you not care to give it away ; but come what will you sell it for ? '' `` Sir , '' reply the Prince , `` I will not sell my parrot . '' then Punchkin get frightened , and say , `` anything , anything ; name what price you will , and it shall be yours . '' the Prince answer , `` let the seven Raja 's son whom you turn into rock and tree be instantly liberate . '' `` it be do as you desire , '' say the magician , `` only give I my parrot . '' and with that , by a stroke of he wand , Balna 's husband and he brother resume they natural shape . `` now , give I my parrot , '' repeat Punchkin . `` not so fast , my master , '' rejoin the Prince ; `` I must first beg that you will restore to life all whom you have thus imprison . '' the magician immediately wave he wand again ; and , whilst he cry , in a implore voice , `` give I my parrot ! '' the whole garden become suddenly alive : where rock , and stone , and tree have be before , stand Rajas , and Punts , and Sirdars , and mighty man on prance horse , and jewel page , and troops of armed attendant . `` give I my parrot ! '' cried Punchkin . then the boy take hold of the parrot , and tear off one of its wing ; and as he do so the magician 's right arm fall off . Punchkin then stretch out he left arm , cry , `` give I my parrot ! '' the Prince pull off the parrot 's second wing , and the magician 's left arm tumble off . `` give I my parrot ! '' cry he , and fall on he knee . the Prince pull off the parrot 's right leg , the Magician 's right leg fall off : the Prince pull off the parrot 's left leg , down fall the magician 's left . nothing remain of he save the limbless body and the head ; but still he roll he eye , and cry , `` give I my parrot ! '' `` take you parrot , then , '' cry the boy , and with that he wring the bird 's neck , and throw it at the magician ; and , as he do so , Punchkin 's head twist round , and , with a fearful groan , he die ! then they let Balna out of the tower ; and she , she son , and the seven Princes go to they own country , and live very happily ever afterwards . and as to the rest of the world , every one go to he own house .