RAJA RASALU Indian Writer once there live a great Raja , whose name be Salabhan , and he have a Queen , by name Lona , who , though she weep and pray at many a shrine , have never a child to gladden she eye . after a long time , however , a son be promise to she . Queen Lona return to the palace , and when the time for the birth of the promised son draw nigh , she inquire of three Jogis who come beg to she gate , what the child 's fate would be , and the youngest of they answer and say , `` oh , Queen ! the child will be a boy , and he will live to be a great man . but for twelve year you must not look upon he face , for if either you or he father see it before the twelve year be past , you will surely die ! this be what you must do ; as soon as the child be bear you must send he away to a cellar underneath the ground , and never let he see the light of day for twelve year . after they be over , he may come forth , bathe in the river , put on new clothes , and visit you . he name shall be Raja Rasalu , and he shall be know far and wide . '' so , when a fair young Prince be in due time bear into the world , he parent hide he away in a underground palace , with nurse , and servant , and everything else a King 's son might desire . and with he they send a young colt , bear the same day , and sword , spear , and shield , against the day when Raja Rasalu should go forth into the world . so there the child live , play with he colt , and talk to he parrot , while the nurse teach he all thing needful for a King 's son to know . Young Rasalu live on , far from the light of day , for eleven long year , grow tall and strong , yet contented to remain play with he colt , and talk to he parrot ; but when the twelfth year begin , the lad 's heart leap up with desire for change , and he love to listen to the sound of life which come to he in he palace-prison from the outside world . `` I must go and see where the voice come from ! '' he say ; and when he nurse tell he he must not go for one year more , he only laugh aloud , say , `` Nay ! I stay no longer here for any man ! '' then he saddle he arab horse Bhaunr , put on he shine armor , and ride forth into the world ; but mindful of what he nurse have oft tell he , when he come to the river , he dismount , and , go into the water , wash himself and he clothes . then , clean of raiment , fair of face , and brave of heart , he ride on he way until he reach he father 's city . there he sit down to rest awhile by a well , where the woman be draw water in earthen pitcher . now , as they pass he , they full pitcher poise upon they head , the gay young Prince flung stone at the earthen vessel , and break they all . then the woman , drench with water , go weep and wail to the palace , complain to the King that a mighty young Prince in shine armor , with a parrot on he wrist and a gallant steed beside he , sit by the well , and break they pitcher . now , as soon as Rajah Salabhan hear this , he guess at once that it be Prince Rasalu come forth before the time , and , mindful of the Jogis ' word that he would die if he look on he son 's face before twelve year be past , he do not dare to send he guard to seize the offender and bring he to be judge . so he bid the woman be comfort , and take pitcher of iron and brass , give new one from he treasury to those who do not possess any of they own . but when Prince Rasalu see the woman return to the well with pitcher of iron and brass , he laugh to himself , and draw he mighty bow till the sharp-pointed arrow pierce the metal vessel as though they have be clay . yet still the King do not send for he , so he mount he steed and set off in the pride of he youth and strength to the palace . he stride into the audience hall , where he father sit tremble , and salute he will all reverence ; but Raja Salabhan , in fear of he life , turn he back hastily and say never a word in reply . then Prince Rasalu call scornfully to he across the hall : `` I come to greet thee , King , and not to harm thee ! what have I do that thou shouldst turn away ? Sceptre and empire have no power to charm I -- I go to seek a worthier prize than they ! '' then he stride away , full of bitterness and anger ; but , as he pass under the palace window , he hear he mother weep , and the sound soften he heart , so that he wrath die down , and a great loneliness fall upon he , because he be spurn by both father and mother . so he cry sorrowfully , `` oh heart crown would with grief , hast thou nought but tear for thy son ? Art mother of mine ? give one thought to my life just begin ! '' and Queen Lona answer through she tear : `` yea ! mother be I , though I weep , so hold this word sure , -- Go , reign king of all man , but keep thy heart good and pure ! '' so Raja Rasalu be comfort , and begin to make ready for fortune . he take with he he horse Bhaunr and he parrot , both of whom have live with he since he be bear . so they make a goodly company , and Queen Lona , when she see they go , watch they from she window till she see nothing but a cloud of dust on the horizon ; then she bow she head on she hand and weep , say : `` oh ! son who ne'er gladden mine eye , let the cloud of thy go arise , dim the sunlight and darken the day ; for the mother whose son be away be as dust ! '' Rasalu have start off to play chaupur with King Sarkap . and as he journey there come a fierce storm of thunder and lightning , so that he seek shelter , and find none save a old graveyard , where a headless corpse lay upon the ground . so lonesome be it that even the corpse seem company , and Rasalu , sit down beside it , say : `` there be no one here , nor far nor near , Save this breathless corpse so cold and grim ; would God he might come to life again , ` twould be less lonely to talk to he . '' and immediately the headless corpse arise and sit beside Raja Rasalu . and he , nothing astonished , say to it : `` the storm beat fierce and loud , the cloud rise thick in the west ; what ail thy grave and shroud , oh corpse ! that thou canst not rest ? '' then the headless corpse reply : `` on earth I be even as thou , my turban awry like a king , my head with the highest , I trow , have my fun and my fling , fighting my foe like a brave , live my life with a swing . and , now I be dead , sin , heavy as lead , will give I no rest in my grave ! '' so the night pass on , dark and dreary , while Rasalu sit in the graveyard and talk to the headless corpse . now when morning break and Rasalu say he must continue he journey , the headless corpse ask he whither he be go , and when he say `` to play chaupur with King Sarkap , '' the corpse beg he to give up the idea say , `` I be King Sarkap 's brother , and I know he way . every day , before breakfast , he cut off the head of two or three man , just to amuse himself . one day no one else be at hand , so he cut off mine , and he will surely cut off yours on some pretence or another . however , if you be determine to go and play chaupur with he , take some of the bone from this graveyard , and make you dice out of they , and then the enchant dice with which my brother play will lose they virtue . otherwise he will always win . '' so Rasalu take some of the bone lie about , and fashion they into dice , and these he put into he pocket . then , bidding adieu to the headless corpse , he go on he way to play chaupur with the King . now , as Raja Rasalu , tender-hearted and strong , journey along to play chaupur with the King , he come to a burning forest , and a voice rise from the fire say , `` oh , traveller ! for God 's sake save I from the fire ! '' then the Prince turn towards the burning forest , and , lo ! the voice be the voice of a tiny cricket . nevertheless , Rasalu , tender-hearted and strong , snatch it from the fire and set it at liberty . then the little creature , full of gratitude , pull out one of its feeler , and give it to its preserver , say , `` keep this , and should you ever be in trouble , put it into the fire , and instantly I will come to you aid . '' the Prince smile , say , `` what help could _ you _ give _ I _ ? '' nevertheless , he keep the hair and go on he way . now , when he reach the city of King Sarkap , seventy maiden , daughter of the King , come out to meet he , -- seventy fair maiden , merry and careless , full of smile and laughter ; but one , the youngest of they all , when she see the gallant young Prince ride on Bhaunr iraqi , go gaily to he doom , be fill with pity , and call to he say : `` Fair Prince , on the charger so gray , turn thee back ! turn thee back ! or lower thy lance for the fray ; Thy head will be forfeit to-day ! dost love life ? then , stranger , I pray , turn thee back ! turn thee back ! '' but he , smile at the maiden , answer lightly : `` Fair maiden , I come from afar , Sworn conqueror in love and in war ! King Sarkap my come will rue , he head in four piece I 'll hew ; then forth as a bridegroom I 'll ride , with you , little maid , as my bride ! '' now when Rasalu reply so gallantly , the maiden look in he face , and see how fair he be , and how brave and strong , she straightway fall in love with he , and would gladly have follow he through the world . but the other sixty-nine maiden , be jealous , laugh scornfully at she , say , `` not so fast , oh gallant warrior ! if you would marry we sister you must first do we bidding , for you will be we younger brother . '' `` Fair sister ! '' quoth Rasalu gaily , `` give I my task and I will perform it . '' so the sixty-nine maiden mix a hundred-weight of millet seed with a hundredweight of sand , and give it to Rasalu , bid he separate the seed from the sand . then he bethink he of the cricket , and draw the feeler from he pocket , thrust it into the fire . and immediately there be a whir noise in the air , and a great flight of cricket alight beside he , and amongst they the cricket whose life he have save . then Rasalu say , `` separate the millet seed from the sand . '' `` be that all ? '' quoth the cricket ; `` have I know how small a job you want I to do , I would not have assemble so many of my brethren . '' with that the flight of cricket set to work , and in one night they separate the seed from the sand . now when the sixty-nine fair maiden , daughter of the king see that Rasalu have perform he task , they set he another , bid he swing they all , one by one , in they swing , until they be tire . Whereupon he laugh , say , `` there be seventy of you , count my little bride yonder , and I be not go to spend my life swing girl ! why , by the time I have give each of you a swing , the first will be want another ! no ! if you want a swing , get in , all seventy of you , into one swing , and then I 'll see what can be do . '' so the seventy maiden climb into one swing , and Raja Rasalu , standing in he shine armor , fasten the rope to he mighty bow , and draw it up to its fullest bent . then he let go , and like a arrow the swing shoot into the air , with its burden of seventy fair maiden , merry and careless , full of smile and laughter . but as it swing back again , Kasalu , stand there in he shine armor , draw he sharp sword and sever the rope . then the seventy fair maiden fall to the ground headlong ; and some be bruise and some broken , but the only one who escape unhurt be the maiden who love Rasalu , for she fall out last , on the top of the other , and so come to no harm . after this , Rasalu stride on fifteen pace , till he come to the seventy drum , that every one who come to play chaupur with the King have to beat in turn ; and he beat they so loudly that he break they all . then he come to the seventy gong , all in a row , and he hammer they so hard that they crack to piece . see this , the youngest Princess , who be the only one who could run , flee to she father the King in a great fright , say : `` a mighty Prince , Sarkap ! make havoc , ride along , he swing we , seventy maiden fair , and throw we out headlong ; he break the drum you place there and the gong too in he pride , Sure , he will kill thee , father mine , and take I for he bride ! '' but King Sarkap reply scornfully : `` silly maiden , thy word make a lot of a very small matter ; for fear of my valor , I wot , he armor will clatter . as soon as I have eat my bread I 'll go forth and cut off he head ! '' notwithstanding these brave and boastful word , he be in reality very much afraid , have hear of Rasalu 's renown . and learn that he be stop at the house of a old woman in the city , till the hour for play chaupur arrive , Sarkap send slave to he with tray of sweetmeat and fruit , as to a honor guest . but the food be poison . now when the slave bring the tray to Raja Rasalu , he rise up haughtily , say , `` go , tell you master I have nought to do with he in friendship . I be he sworn enemy , and I eat not of he salt ! '' so say , he throw the sweetmeat to Raja Sarkap 's dog , which have follow the slave , and lo ! the dog die . then Rasalu be very wroth , and say bitterly , `` go back to Sarkap , slave ! and tell he that Rasalu deem it no act of bravery to kill even a enemy by treachery . '' now , when evening come , Raja Rasalu go forth to play chaupur with King Sarkap , and as he pass some potter ' kiln he see a cat wander about restlessly ; so he ask what ail she , that she never stand still , and she reply , `` my kitten be in a unbaked pot in the kiln yonder . it have just be set alight , and my child will be baked alive ; therefore I can not rest ! '' she word move the heart of Raja Rasalu , and , go to the potter , he ask he to sell the kiln as it be ; but the potter reply that he could not settle a fair price till the pot be burnt , as he could not tell how many would come out whole . nevertheless , after some bargaining , he consent at last to sell the kiln , and Rasalu , have search all the pot , restore the kitten to they mother , and she , in gratitude for he mercy , give he one of they , say , `` put it in you pocket , for it will help you when you be in difficulty . '' so Raja Rasalu put the kitten in he pocket , and go to play chaupur with the King . now , before they sit down to play , Raja Sarkap fix he stake , -- on the first game , he kingdom ; on the second , the wealth of the whole world ; and , on the third , he own head . so , likewise , Raja Rasalu fix he stake , -- on the first game , he arm ; on the second , he horse ; and , on the third , he own head . then they begin to play , and it fall to Rasalu 's lot to make the first move . now he , forgetful of the dead man 's warning , play with the dice give he by Raja Sarkap , besides which , Sarkap let loose he famous rat , Dhol Raja , and it run about the board , upset the chaupur piece on the sly , so that Rasalu lose the first game , and give up he shine armor . then the second game begin , and once more Dhol Raja , the rat , upset the piece ; and Rasalu , lose the game , give up he faithful steed . then Bhaunr , the Arab steed , who stand by , find voice , and cry to he master , `` sea-born be I , buy with much gold ; Dear Prince ! trust I now as of old . I 'll carry you far from these wiles -- my flight , all unspurr 'd , will be swift as a bird , for thousand and thousand of mile ! or if need you must stay ; ere the next game you play , Place hand in you pocket , I pray ! '' hearing this , Raja Sarkap frown , and bid he slave remove Bhaunr , the Arab steed , since he give he master advice in the game . now , when the slave come to lead the faithful steed away , Rasalu could not refrain from tear , think over the long year during which Bhaunr , the Arab steed , have be he companion . but the horse cry out again , `` weep not , dear Prince ! I shall not eat my bread of stranger hand , nor to strange stall be lead . take thy right hand , and place it as I say . '' these word rouse some recollection in Rasalu 's mind , and when , just at this moment , the kitten in he pocket begin to struggle , he remember all about the warning , and the dice make from dead man 's bone . then he heart rise up once more , and he call boldly to Raja Sarkap , `` leave my horse and arm here for the present . Time enough to take they away when you have win my head ! '' now , Raja Sarkap , see Rasalu 's confident bearing , begin to be afraid , and order all the woman of he palace to come forth in they gayest attire and stand before Rasalu , so as to distract he attention from the game . but he never even look at they , and draw the dice from he pocket , say to Sarkap , `` we have play with you dice all this time ; now we will play with mine . '' then the kitten go and sit at the window through which the rat Dhol Raja use to come , and the game begin . after a while , Sarkap , see Raja Rasalu be win , call to he rat , but when Dhol Raja see the kitten he be afraid , and would not go further . so Rasalu win , and take back he arm . next he play for he horse , and once more Raja Sarkap call for he rat ; but Dhol Raja , see the kitten keep watch , be afraid . so Rasalu win the second stake , and take back Bhaunr , the Arab steed . then Sarkap bring all he skill to bear on the third and last game , say , `` oh mould piece ! favor I to-day ! for sooth this be a man with whom I play . no paltry risk -- but life and death at stake ; as Sarkap do , so do , for Sarkap 's sake ! '' but Rasalu answer back , `` oh mould piece ! favor I to-day ! for sooth it be a man with whom I play . no paltry risk -- but life and death at stake ; as Heaven do , so do , for Heaven 's sake ! '' so they begin to play , whilst the woman stand round in a circle , and the kitten watch Dhol Raja from the window . then Sarkap lose , first he kingdom , then the wealth of the whole world , and lastly he head . just then , a servant come in to announce the birth of a daughter to Raja Sarkap , and he , overcome by misfortune , say , `` kill she at once ! for she have be bear in a evil moment , and have bring she father ill luck ! '' but Rasalu rise up in he shine armor , tender-hearted and strong , say , `` not so , oh king ! she have do no evil . give I this child to wife ; and if you will vow , by all you hold sacred , never again to play chaupur for another 's head , I will spare yours now ! '' then Sarkap vow a solemn vow never to play for another 's head ; and after that he take a fresh mango branch , and the new-born babe , and place they on a golden dish give they to Rasalu . now , as he leave the palace , carry with he the new-born babe and the mango branch , he meet a band of prisoner , and they call out to he , `` a royal hawk art thou , oh King ! the rest but timid wild-fowl . Grant we we request , -- unloose these chain , and live for ever bless ! '' and Raja Rasalu hearken to they , and bid King Sarkap set they at liberty . then he go to the Murti Hills , and place the new-born babe , Kokilan , in a underground palace , and plant the mango branch at the door , say , `` in twelve year the mango tree will blossom ; then will I return and marry Kokilan . '' and after twelve year , the mango tree begin to flower , and Raja Rasalu marry the Princess Kokilan , whom he win from Sarkap when he play chaupur with the King .