12 Rapunzel BrothersS Grimm there be once a man and a woman who have long in vain wish for a child . at length the woman hope that God be about to grant she desire . these people have a little window at the back of they house from which a splendid garden could be see , which be full of the most beautiful flower and herb . it be , however , surround by a high wall , and no one dare to go into it because it belong to a enchantress , who have great power and be dread by all the world . one day the woman be stand by this window and look down into the garden , when she see a bed which be plant with the most beautiful rampion -lrb-B- rapunzel -rrb-B- , and it look so fresh and green that she long for it , and have the greatest desire to eat some . this desire increase every day , and as she know that she could not get any of it , she quite pine away , and look pale and miserable . then she husband be alarm , and ask , `` what aileth thee , dear wife ? '' `` ah , '' she reply , `` if I can not get some of the rampion , which be in the garden behind we house , to eat , I shall die . '' the man , who love she , think , `` sooner than let thy wife die , bring she some of the rampion thyself , let it cost thee what it will . '' in the twilight of the evening , he clamber down over the wall into the garden of the enchantress , hastily clutch a handful of rampion , and take it to he wife . she at once make herself a salad of it , and eat it with much relish . she , however , like it so much -- so very much , that the next day she long for it three time as much as before . if he be to have any rest , she husband must once more descend into the garden . in the gloom of evening , therefore , he let himself down again ; but when he have clamber down the wall he be terribly afraid , for he see the enchantress standing before he . `` how canst thou dare , '' say she with angry look , `` to descend into my garden and steal my rampion like a thief ? Thou shalt suffer for it ! '' `` ah , '' answer he , `` let mercy take the place of justice , I only make up my mind to do it out of necessity . my wife see you rampion from the window , and feel such a longing for it that she would have die if she have not get some to eat . '' then the enchantress allow she anger to be soften , and say to he , `` if the case be as thou sayest , I will allow thee to take away with thee as much rampion as thou wilt , only I make one condition , thou must give I the child which thy wife will bring into the world ; it shall be well treat , and I will care for it like a mother . '' the man in he terror consent to everything , and when the woman be bring to bed , the enchantress appear at once , give the child the name of Rapunzel , and take it away with she . Rapunzel grow into the most beautiful child beneath the sun . when she be twelve year old , the enchantress shut she into a tower , which lay in a forest , and have neither stair nor door , but quite at the top be a little window . when the enchantress want to go in , she place herself beneath it and cry , `` Rapunzel , Rapunzel , let down thy hair to I . '' Rapunzel have magnificent long hair , fine as spin gold , and when she hear the voice of the enchantress she unfasten she braided tress , wind they round one of the hook of the window above , and then the hair fall twenty ell down , and the enchantress climb up by it . after a year or two , it come to pass that the King 's son ride through the forest and go by the tower . then he hear a song , which be so charming that he stand still and listen . this be Rapunzel , who in she solitude pass she time in let she sweet voice resound . the King 's son want to climb up to she , and look for the door of the tower , but none be to be find . he ride home , but the singing have so deeply touch he heart , that every day he go out into the forest and listen to it . once when he be thus stand behind a tree , he see that a enchantress come there , and he hear how she cry , `` Rapunzel , Rapunzel , let down thy hair . '' then Rapunzel let down the braid of she hair , and the enchantress climb up to she . `` if that be the ladder by which one mount , I will for once try my fortune , '' say he , and the next day when it begin to grow dark , he go to the tower and cry , `` Rapunzel , Rapunzel , let down thy hair . '' immediately the hair fall down and the King 's son climb up . at first Rapunzel be terribly frighten when a man such as she eye have never yet beheld , come to she ; but the King 's son begin to talk to she quite like a friend , and tell she that he heart have be so stir that it have let he have no rest , and he have be force to see she . then Rapunzel lose she fear , and when he ask she if she would take he for she husband , and she see that he be young and handsome , she think , `` he will love I more than old Dame Gothel do ; '' and she say yes , and lay she hand in he . she say , `` I will willingly go away with thee , but I do not know how to get down . bring with thee a skein of silk every time that thou comest , and I will weave a ladder with it , and when that be ready I will descend , and thou wilt take I on thy horse . '' they agree that until that time he should come to she every evening , for the old woman come by day . the enchantress remark nothing of this , until once Rapunzel say to she , `` tell I , Dame Gothel , how it happen that you be so much heavier for I to draw up than the young King 's son -- he be with I in a moment . '' `` ah ! thou wicked child , '' cry the enchantress `` what do I hear thee say ! I think I have separate thee from all the world , and yet thou hast deceive I . '' in she anger she clutch Rapunzel 's beautiful tress , wrap they twice round she left hand , seize a pair of scissors with the right , and snip , snap , they be cut off , and the lovely braid lay on the ground . and she be so pitiless that she take poor Rapunzel into a desert where she have to live in great grief and misery . on the same day , however , that she cast out Rapunzel , the enchantress in the evening fasten the braid of hair which she have cut off , to the hook of the window , and when the King 's son come and cry , `` Rapunzel , Rapunzel , let down thy hair , '' she let the hair down . the King 's son ascend , but he do not find he dearest rapunzel above , but the enchantress , who gaze at he with wicked and venomous look . `` aha ! '' she cry mockingly , `` Thou wouldst fetch thy dearest , but the beautiful bird sit no longer sing in the nest ; the cat have get it , and will scratch out thy eye as well . Rapunzel be lose to thee ; thou wilt never see she more . '' the King 's son be beside himself with pain , and in he despair he leap down from the tower . he escape with he life , but the thorn into which he fall , pierce he eye . then he wander quite blind about the forest , eat nothing but root and berry , and do nothing but lament and weep over the loss of he dearest wife . thus he roam about in misery for some year , and at length come to the desert where Rapunzel , with the twin to which she have give birth , a boy and a girl , live in wretchedness . he hear a voice , and it seem so familiar to he that he go towards it , and when he approach , Rapunzel know he and fall on he neck and weep . two of she tear wet he eye and they grow clear again , and he could see with they as before . he lead she to he kingdom where he be joyfully receive , and they live for a long time afterwards , happy and contented .