RICHARD MINUTOLO La Fontain in ev ` ry age , at Naples , we be tell , Intrigue and gallantry reign uncontrolled ; with beauteous object in abundance bless . no country round so many have possess ; such fascinating charm the fair disclose , that irresistibly soft passion flow . ` mong these a belle , enchant to behold , be love by one , of birth and store of gold ; Minutolo -lrb-B- and Richard -rrb-B- be he name , in Cupid 's train a youth of brilliant fame : ` Tween Rome and Paris none be more gallant , and num ` rous heart be for he know to pant . CATELLA -lrb-B- thus be call we lady fair , -rrb-B- so long , howe'er , resist Richard 's snare , that prayer , and vow , and promise be vain ; a favor Minutolo could not gain . at length , we hero weary , coldness show , and dropt attendance , since no kindness flow ; Pretended to be cure : -- another seek , and feign she charm he tender heart have catch : catellum laugh , but jealousy be nigh ; 'twa for she friend that now he heave the sigh . THESE dame together meet , and Richard too , the gay gallant a glowing picture draw , of certain husband , lover , prude , and wife ; who lead in secret most lascivious life . though none he name , Catella be amaze ; he hint suspicion of she husband raise ; and such she agitation and affright , that , anxious to procure more certain light , in haste she take Minutolo aside , and beg the name he would not from she hide , with all particulars , from first to last : -- she ardent wish to know whate'er have pass . so long you reign , say Richard , o ` er my mind , Deny I could not , howsoe'er incline ; with Mrs. Simon often be you spouse ; she character no doubt you spleen will rouse ; I have no design , observe to give offence , but , when I see you int ` rest in suspense , I can not silent keep ; though , be I still a slave , devote wholly to you will , as late I move , I would not drop a word mistrust of lover may not be absurd ; besides , you have fancy other motive lead to tell you of you husband what be say ; but heav ` n be praise , of you I nothing want ; my object 's plain -- no more the fond gallant . I have lately certain information have , you spouse -lrb-B- I scarcely think the man so bad , -rrb-B- have with the lady a appointment make ; at Jack 's nice bagnio he will meet the jade . now clearly Jack 's not rich , and there be no doubt ; a hundred ducat give , and -- ALL will out ; let he but have a handsome sum in view , and any thing you wish , be sure he 'll do ; you then can manage ev ` ry way so well , that , at the place assign to meet he belle , you 'll take this truant husband by surprise ; -- permit I in this nice affair to advise . the lady have agree , you will remark , that in a room where ev ` ry part be dark , -lrb-B- perhaps to ` scape the keeper 's prying sight , or shame direct exclusion of the light , -rrb-B- she will receive you gay inconstant spouse ; now , take she place ; the case deceit allow ; Make Jack you friend ; nor haggle at the price ; a hundred ducat give , be my advice ; he 'll place you in the room where darkness reign ; think not too fast , nor suffer heavy chain ; do what you wish , and utter not a word ; to speak , assuredly would be absurd ; ` Twould spoil the whole ; destroy the project quite ; attend , and see if all thing be not right . the project pleased catellum to the soul ; she wrath , no longer able to controul , she Richard stopt ; enough , enough , she cry ; I fully understand : -- leave I to guide ; I 'll play the fellow and he wanton lass a pretty trick-shall all they art surpass , unless the string give way and spoil my scheme ; what , take I for a nincompoop ? -- they dream . THIS say , she seek excuse to get away , and go in quest of Jack without delay . the keeper , howsoe'er , a hint have get ; Minutolo have school he for the plot ; Oft cash do wonder , and , if such the case in France or Britain , when confer a grace , the bribe be take , and the truth abused , in Italy it will not be refuse ; there this sole quiver cupid useful find , -- a purse well store -- all bind , gunlock , or blind : Jack take the pelf from Richard and the dame ; have Satan offer -- ` twould have be the same . in short , Minutolo have full success , all come about , and mark the spark 's address . the lady have at first some warm dispute to many question Jack be even mute ; but when he see the golden charm unmasked , far more he promise than Catella ask . the time of rendezvous arrive , we spark to Jack 's repair , and find the room quite dark ; so well arrange , no crevice could he find , through which the light might hurt what he design . not long he wait , ere we jealous dame , who long to find she faithless husband , come , most thoroughly prepared he ear to greet . Jack bring the couple presently to meet . the lady find , howe'er , not what she seek : no guilty spouse , nor Mrs. Simon catch ; but wily Richard , who , without alarm , in silence take catellum in he arm . what further pass between the easy pair , think what you will , I mean not to declare ; the lover certainly receive delight the lady show no terror nor affright ; on neither side a syllable be dropt with care Minutolo he laughter stopt ; Though difficult , we spark succeed well ; no word of mine can Richard 's pleasure tell . he fav ` rite beauteous belle he now possess , and triumph where so oft he would be repress , yet fondly hope she pardon he should get , since they together have so gaily meet . AT length , the fair could no longer contain : vile wretch , she cry , I have bear too much ` ti plain ; I be not the fav ` rite whom thou have ` st in view : to tear thy eye out justly be thy due , ` ti this , indeed , that make thee silent keep , each morn feign sickness , and pretend to sleep , Thyself reserve doubtless for amours : -- speak , villain ! say , of charm have I less store ? or what have Mrs. Simon more than I ? a wanton wench , in trick so wondrous sly ! where my love less ? though truly now I hate ; would that I would see thee hung , thou wretch ingrate ! MINUTOLO , while thus catellum speak , caress she much , but silence never break ; a kiss e ` en try to gain , without success ; she struggle , and refuse to acquiesce ; Begone ! say she , nor treat I like a child ; stand off ! -- away ! -- thy taction be defile ; my tear express a injured woman 's grief ; no more thy wife I 'll be , but seek relief ; return my fortune -- go : -- thy mistress seek ; to be so constant : -- how be I so weak ? it surely would be nothing more than right , be Richard I to see this very night , who adoration constantly have pay : -- you much deserve to be a cuckold make ; I be half inclined , I vow , to do the worst . at this we arch gallant with laughter burst . what impudence ! -- you mock I too ? she cry let 's see , with blush if he face be dye ? when from he arm she spring , a window seek ; the shutter ope 'd , and then a view she catch ; Minutolo , she lover ! \* \* \* what surprise ! Pale , faint , she instant grow , and close she eye : who would have think , say she , thou wert so base ? I be lose ! \* \* \* for ever sink in dire disgrace ! who 'LL , know it ? Richard earnestly reply ; in Jack 's concealment we may both confide ; excuse the trick I have play and ne'er repine ; Address , force , treachery , in love combine ; all be permit when intrigue 's the word ; to hold the contrary be quite absurd . till stratagem be use I naught could gain , but look and dart from eye , for all my pain . I have pay myself ; -- would you have do it ? -- no ; ` tis all as might be wish ; -- come , smile bestow ; I be satisfied , the fault be not with you . in this , to make you wretch , naught I view ; why sigh and groan ? -- what number could I name , who would be happy to be serve the same . he rea ` ning yet could not the belle appease ; she weep , and seek by tear she mind to ease ; Affliction highly add to she charm ; Minutolo still give she new alarm ; he take she hand , which she at once withdraw : away , she cry ; no longer I pursue ; be satisfied ; you surely do not desire that I assistance from the house require , or rouse the neighbor with my plaintive cry I 'll ev ` ry thing declare without disguise . such folly do not commit , reply the spark ; you wisest plan be nothing to remark : the world at present be become so vile , if you the truth divulge , they 'll only smile ; not one a word of treachery would believe , but think you come -- and money to receive : suppose , besides , it reach you husband 's ear ; Th ' effect have reason to excite you fear ; ` twould give displeasure and occasion strife : would you in duel wish to risk he life ? whatever make you with he disagree , at all event , I be full as bad as he . THESE reason with Catella greatly weigh since thing , continue he , be thus display ; and can not be repair , console you mind ; a perfect be never be design . if , howsoe'er you will \* \* \* but say no more ; such thought for ever banish , I implore . ` Mid all my perseverance , zeal , and art , I nothing get but frown that pierce the heart : ` Twill now on you depend if pleasure prove this day imperfect , ere from hence we move . what more remain to do ? the worst be past ; ` TisS step the first that cost , however class . so well Minutolo prefer he suit , the lady with he more would not dispute , with downcast eye she listen to he prayer , and look dispose to tranquilize he care ; from easy freedom soon he ` gan to soar ; a smile receive : -- a kiss bestow and more : at length , the lady pass resistance by , and all concede , e ` en without a sigh . OUR hero feel a thousand time more bless than when he first the beauteous fair caressed ; for when a flame reciprocal be raise , the bliss redouble , and by all be praise . THUS Richard pleasantly employ he time , Contented live , concentr joy sublime . a sample , now , we have give of he pow ` r , and who would wish for more delightful hour ? O grant , kind heav ` n ! that I the like may meet , and ever prove so wary and discreet .