SAMURAI ! '' Japanese Writer thus Kintaro 's fate be settle , and the general decide to start for the capital at once , take Kintaro with he . it need hardly be say that yama-uba be sad at parting with she boy , for he be all that be leave to she . but she hide she grief with a strong face , as they say in Japan . she know that it be for she boy 's good that he should leave she now , and she must not discourage he just as he be set out . Kintaro promise never to forget she , and say that as soon as he be a knight wear two sword he would build she a home and take care of she in she old age . all the animal , those he have tame to serve he , the bear , the deer , the monkey , and the hare , as soon as they find out that he be go away , come to ask if they might attend he as usual . when they learn that he be go away for good they follow he to the foot of the mountain to see he off . `` Kimbo , '' say he mother , `` mind and be a good boy . '' `` Mr. Kintaro , '' say the faithful animal , `` we wish you good health on you travels . '' then they all climb a tree to see the last of he , and from that height they watch he and he shadow gradually grow smaller and smaller , till he be lose to sight . the general Sadamitsu go on he way rejoice at have so unexpectedly find such a prodigy as Kintaro . have arrive at they destination the general take Kintaro at once to he Lord , Minamoto-no-Raiko , and tell he all about Kintaro and how he have find the child . Lord Raiko be delight with the story , and have command Kintaro to be bring to he , make he one of he vassal at once . Lord Raiko 's army be famous for its band call `` the Four BravesS . '' these warrior be choose by himself from amongst the bravest and strongest of he soldier , and the small and well-picked band be distinguish throughout the whole of Japan for the dauntless courage of its man . when Kintaro grow up to be a man he master make he the Chief of the four BravesS . he be by far the strongest of they all . soon after this event , news be bring to the city that a cannibal monster have take up he abode not far away and that people be stricken with fear . Lord Raiko order Kintaro to the rescue . he immediately start off , delighted at the prospect of try he sword . surprise the monster in its den , he make short work of cut off its great head , which he carry back in triumph to he master . Kintaro now rise to be the greatest hero of he country , and great be the power and honor and wealth that come to he . he now keep he promise and build a comfortable home for he old mother , who live happily with he in the capital to the end of she day . be not this the story of a great hero ?