SEVENTH evening . H. C. Andersen `` along the margin of the shore stretch a forest of fir and beech , and fresh and fragrant be this wood ; hundred of nightingale visit it every spring . close beside it be the sea , the ever-changing sea , and between the two be place the broad high-road . one carriage after another roll over it ; but I do not follow they , for my eye love best to rest upon one point . a Hun 's Grave -lrb-B- 2aaaaa -rrb-B- aaa lie there , and the sloe and blackthorn grow luxuriantly among the stone . here be true poetry in nature . -lrb-B- footnote 2 : large mound similar to the `` barrow '' find in Britain , be thus designate in Germany and the North . aaaaa -rrb-B- aaa `` and how do you think man appreciate this poetry ? I will tell you what I hear there last evening and during the night . `` First , two rich land proprietor come drive by . ` those be glorious tree ! ' say the first . ` certainly ; there be ten load of firewood in each , ' observe the other : ` it will be a hard winter , and last year we get fourteen dollar a load ' -- and they be go . ` the road here be wretch , ' observe another man who drive past . ` that be the fault of those horrible tree , ' reply he neighbor ; ` there be no free current of air ; the wind can only come from the sea ' -- and they be go . the stage coach go rattle past . all the passenger be asleep at this beautiful spot . the postillion blow he horn , but he only think , ` I can play capitally . it sound well here . I wonder if those in there like it ? ' -- and the stage coach vanish . then two young fellow come gallopp up on horseback . there be youth and spirit in the blood here ! thought I ; and , indeed , they look with a smile at the moss-grown hill and thick forest . ` I should not dislike a walk here with the miller 's Christine , ' say one -- and they fly past . `` the flower scented the air ; every breath of air be hush : it seem as if the sea be a part of the sky that stretch above the deep valley . a carriage roll by . six people be sit in it . four of they be asleep ; the fifth be think of he new summer coat , which would suit he admirably ; the sixth turn to the coachman and ask he if there be anything remarkable connect with yonder heap of stone . ` no , ' reply the coachman , ` it be only a heap of stone ; but the tree be remarkable . ' ` how so ? ' ` why , I 'll tell you how they be very remarkable . you see , in winter , when the snow lie very deep , and have hide the whole road so that nothing be to be see , those tree serve I for a landmark . I steer by they , so as not to drive into the sea ; and you see that be why the tree be remarkable . ' `` now come a painter . he speak not a word , but he eye sparkle . he begin to whistle . at this the nightingale sing louder than ever . ` hold you tongue ! ' he cry testily ; and he make accurate note of all the color and transition -- blue , and lilac , and dark brown . ` that will make a beautiful picture , ' he say . he take it in just as a mirror take in a view ; and as he work he whistle a march of Rossini . and last of all come a poor girl . she lay aside the burden she carry , and sit down to rest upon the Hun 's Grave . she pale handsome face be bent in a listen attitude towards the forest . she eye brighten , she gaze earnestly at the sea and the sky , she hand be fold , and I think she pray , ` we Father . ' she herself could not understand the feeling that sweep through she , but I know that this minute , and the beautiful natural scene , will live within she memory for year , far more vividly and more truly than the painter could portray it with he color on paper . my ray follow she till the morning dawn kiss she brow . ''