170 share Joy and Sorrow BrothersS Grimm there be once a tailor , who be a quarrelsome fellow , and he wife , who be good , industrious , and pious , never could please he . whatever she do , he be not satisfied , but grumble and scold , and knock she about and beat she . as the authority at last hear of it , they have he summon , and put in prison in order to make he better . he be keep for a while on bread and water , and then set free again . he be force , however , to promise not to beat he wife any more , but to live with she in peace , and share joy and sorrow with she , as married people ought to do . all go on well for a time , but then he fall into he old way , and be surly and quarrelsome . and because he dare not beat she , he would seize she by the hair and tear it out . the woman escape from he , and spring out into the yard , but he run after she with he yard-measure and scissors , and chase she about , and throw the yard-measure and scissors at she , and whatever else come he way . when he hit she he laugh , and when he miss she , he storm and swear . this go on so long that the neighbor come to the wife 's assistance . the tailor be again summon before the magistrate , and remind of he promise . `` dear gentleman , '' say he , `` I have keep my word , I have not beat she , but have share joy and sorrow with she . '' `` how can that be , '' say the judge , `` when she continually bring such heavy complaint against you ? '' `` I have not beat she , but just because she look so strange I want to comb she hair with my hand ; she , however , get away from I , and leave I quite spitefully . then I hurry after she , and in order to bring she back to she duty , I throw at she as a well-meant admonition whatever come readily to hand . I have share joy and sorrow with she also , for whenever I hit she I be full of joy , and she of sorrow , and if I miss she , then she be joyful , and I sorry . '' the judge be not satisfy with this answer , but give he the reward he deserve .