SHE WAS GOOD for NOTHING . H. C. Andersen the mayor stand at the open window . he shirt-frill be very fine , and so be he ruffle ; he have a breast-pin stick in he frill , and be uncommonly smooth-shaven -- all he own work ; certainly he have give himself a slight cut , but he have stick a bit of newspaper on the place . `` Hark ` ee , youngster ! '' he cry . the youngster in question be no other than the son of the poor washerwoman , who be just go past the house ; and he pull off he cap respectfully . the peak of the say cap be break in the middle , for the cap be arrange so that it could be roll up and cram into he pocket . in he poor , but clean and well-mended attire , with heavy wooden shoe on he foot , the boy stand there , as humble and abashed as if he stand opposite the king himself . `` you be a good boy , '' say Mr. Mayor . `` you be a civil boy . I suppose you mother be rinse clothes down yonder in the river ? I suppose you be to carry that thing to you mother that you have in you pocket ? that be a bad affair with you mother . how much have you get in it ? '' `` half a quartern , '' stammer the boy , in a frightened voice . `` and this morning she have just as much , '' the mayor continue . `` no , '' reply the boy , `` it be yesterday . '' `` two half make a whole . she be good for nothing ! it be a sad thing with that kind of people ! tell you mother that she ought to be ashamed of herself ; and mind you do not become a drunkard -- but you will become one , though . Poor child -- there , go ! '' accordingly the boy go on he way . he keep he cap in he hand , and the wind play with he yellow hair , so that great lock of it stand up straight . he turn down by the street corner , into the little lane that lead to the river , where he mother stand by the wash bench , beat the heavy linen with the mallet . the water roll quickly along , for the flood-gates at the mill have be draw up , and the sheet be catch by the stream , and threaten to overturn the bench . the washerwoman be oblige to lean against the bench , to support it . `` I be very nearly sail away , '' she say . `` it be a good thing that you be come , for I have need to recruit my strength a little . for six hour I have be stand in the water . Have you bring anything for I ? '' the boy produce the bottle , and the mother put it to she mouth , and take a little . `` ah , how that revive one ! '' she say : `` how it warm ! it be as good as a hot meal , and not so dear . and you , my boy ! you look quite pale . you be shiver in you thin clothes -- to be sure it be autumn . Ugh ! how cold the water be ! I hope I shall not be ill. . but no , I shall not be that ! give I a little more , and you may have a sip too , but only a little sip , for you must not accustom yourself to it , my poor dear child ! '' and she step up to the bridge on which the boy stand , and come ashore . the water drip from the straw mat she have wind round she , and from she gown . `` I work and toil as much as ever I can , '' she say , `` but I do it willingly , if I can only manage to bring you up honestly and well , my boy . '' as she speak , a somewhat older woman come towards they . she be poor enough to behold , lame of one leg , and with a large false curl hang down over one of she eye , which be a blind one . the curl be intend to cover the eye , but it only make the defect more striking . this be a friend of the laundress . she be call among the neighbor , `` Lame Martha with the curl . '' `` oh , you poor thing ! how you work , stand there in the water ! '' cry the visitor . `` you really require something to warm you ; and yet malicious folk cry out about the few drop you take ! '' and in a few minute ' time the mayor 's late speech be report to the laundress ; for Martha have hear it all , and she have be angry that a man could speak as he have do to a woman 's own child , about the few drop the mother take : and she be the more angry , because the mayor on that very day be give a great feast , at which wine be drunk by the bottle -- good wine , strong wine . `` a good many will take more than they need -- but that be not call drinking . _ they _ be good ; but _ you _ be good for nothing ! '' cried Martha , indignantly . `` ah , so he speak to you , my child ? '' say the washerwoman ; and she lip tremble as she speak . `` so he say you have a mother who be good for nothing ? well , perhaps he be right , but he should not have say it to the child . still , I have have much misfortune from that house . '' `` you be in service there when the mayor 's parent be alive , and live in that house . that be many year ago : many bushel of salt have be eat since then , and we may well be thirsty ; '' and Martha smile . `` the mayor have a great dinner party to-day . the guest be to have be put off , but it be too late , and the dinner be already cook . the footman tell I about it . a letter come a little while ago , to say that the younger brother have die in Copenhagen . '' `` die ! '' repeat the laundress -- and she become pale as death . `` yes , certainly , '' say Martha . `` do you take that so much to heart ? well , you must have know he year ago , when you be in service in the house . '' `` be he dead ? he be such a good , worthy man ! there be not many like he . '' and the tear roll down she cheek . `` good heaven ! everything be whirling around I -- it be too much for I . I feel quite ill. '' and she lean against the plank . `` good heaven , you be ill indeed ! '' exclaim the other woman . `` come , come , it will pass over presently . but no , you really look seriously ill. . the best thing will be for I to lead you home . '' `` but my linen yonder -- '' `` I will take care of that . come , give I you arm . the boy can stay here and take care of it , and I 'll come back and finish the wash ; that be only a trifle . '' the laundress 's limb shake under she . `` I have stand too long in the cold water , '' she say faintly , `` and I have eat and drunk nothing since this morning . the fever be in my bone . O kind Heaven , help I to get home ! my poor child ! '' and she burst into tear . the boy weep too , and soon he be sit alone by the river , beside the damp linen . the two woman could make only slow progress . the laundress drag she weary limb along , and totter through the lane and round the corner into the street where stand the house of the mayor ; and just in front of he mansion she sink down on the pavement . many people assemble round she , and Lame Martha run into the house to get help . the mayor and he guest come to the window . `` that be the washerwoman ! '' he say . `` she have take a glass too much . she be good for nothing . it be a pity for the pretty son she have . I really like the child very well ; but the mother be good for nothing . '' presently the laundress come to herself , and they lead she into she poor dwelling , and put she to bed . Kind Martha heat a mug of beer for she , with butter and sugar , which she consider the best medicine ; and then she hasten to the river , and rinse the linen -- badly enough , though she will be good . strictly speaking , she draw it ashore , wet as it be , and lay it in a basket . towards evening she be sit in the poor little room with the laundress . the mayor 's cook have give she some roasted potato and a fine fat piece of ham , for the sick woman , and Martha and the boy discuss these viand while the patient enjoy the smell , which she pronounce very nourishing . and presently the boy be put to bed , in the same bed in which he mother lay ; but he sleep at she foot , cover with a old quilt make up of blue and white patch . soon the patient feel a little better . the warm beer have strengthen she , and the fragrance of the provision please she also . `` thanks , you kind soul , '' she say to Martha . `` I will tell you all when the boy be asleep . I think he have drop off already . how gentle and good he look , as he lie there with he eye close . he do not know what he mother have suffer , and Heaven grant he may never know it . I be in service at the councillor 's , the father of the mayor . it happen that the youngest of the son , the student , come home . I be young then , a wild girl , but honest , that I may declare in the face of Heaven . the student be merry and kind , good and brave . every drop of blood in he be good and honest . I have not see a better man on this earth . he be the son of the house , and I be only a maid , but we form a attachment to each other , honestly and honourably . and he tell he mother of it , for she be in he eye as a deity on earth ; and she be wise and gentle . he go away on a journey , but before he start he put he gold ring on my finger ; and directly he be go my mistress call I . with a firm yet gentle seriousness she speak to I , and it seem as if wisdom itself be speak . she show I clearly , in spirit and in truth , the difference there be between he and I . '' ` now he be charm with you pretty appearance , ' she say , ` but you good look will leave you . you have not be educate as he have . you be not equal in mind , and there be the misfortune . I respect the poor , ' she continue ; ` in the sight of God they may occupy a higher place than many a rich man can fill ; but here on earth we must beware of enter a false track as we go onward , or we carriage be upset , and we be throw into the road . I know that a worthy man wish to marry you -- a artisan -- I mean Erich the glovemaker . he be a widower without child , and be well to do . think it over . ' `` every word she speak cut into my heart like a knife , but I know that my mistress be right , and that knowledge weigh heavily upon I . I kiss she hand , and weep bitter tear , and I weep still more when I go into my room and throw myself on my bed . it be a heavy night that I have to pass through . heaven know what I suffer and how I wrestle ! the next Sunday I go to the Lord 's house , to pray for strength and guidance . it seem like a Providence , that as I step out of church Erich come towards I . and now there be no longer a doubt in my mind . we be suit to each other in rank and in means , and he be even then a thriving man . therefore I go up to he , take he hand , and say , ` be you still of the same mind towards I ? ' ` yes , ever and always , ' he reply . ` will you marry a girl who honor and respects , but who do not love you -- though that may come later ? ' I ask again . ` yes , it will come ! ' he answer ; and upon this we join hand . I go home to my mistress . I wear the gold ring that the son have give I at my heart . I could not put it on my finger in the daytime , but only in the evening when I go to bed . I kiss the ring again and again , till my lip almost bleed , and then I give it to my mistress , and tell she the banns be to be put up next week for I and the glovemaker . then my mistress put she arm round I and kiss I . _ she _ do not say that I be good for nothing ; but perhaps I be better then than I be now , though the misfortune of life have not yet find I out . in a few week we be marry ; and for the first year the world go well with we : we have a journeyman and a apprentice , and you , Martha , live with we as we servant . '' `` oh , you be a dear , good mistress , '' cry Martha . `` never shall I forget how kind you and you husband be ! '' `` yes , those be we good year , when you be with we . we have not any child yet . the student I never see again . -- Yes , though , I see he , but he do not see I . he be here at he mother 's funeral . I see he stand by the grave . he be pale as death , and very downcast , but that be for he mother ; afterwards , when he father die , he be away in a foreign land , and do not come back hither . I know that he never marry ; I believe he become a lawyer . he have forget I ; and even if he have see I again , he would not have know I , I look so ugly . and that be very fortunate . '' and then she speak of she day of trial , and tell how misfortune have come as it be swoop down upon they . `` we have five hundred dollar , '' she say ; `` and as there be a house in the street to be buy for two hundred , and it would pay to pull it down and build a new one , it be buy . the builder and carpenter calculate the expense , and the new house be to cost ten hundred and twenty ! Erich have credit , and borrow the money in the chief town , but the captain who be to bring it be shipwreck , and the money be lose with he . '' `` just at that time my dear sweet boy who be sleep yonder be bear . my husband be strike down by a long heavy illness : for three quarter of a year I be compel to dress and undress he . we go back more and more , and fall into debt . all that we have be sell , and my husband die . I have work , and toil , and strive , for the sake of the child , and scrub staircase , wash linen , clean and coarse alike , but I be not to be better off , such be God 's good will . but he will take I to himself in he own good time , and will not forsake my boy . '' and she fall asleep . towards morning she feel much refresh , and strong enough , as she think , to go back to she work . she have just step again into the cold water , when a tremble and faintness seize she : she clutch at the air with she hand , take a step forward , and fall down . she head rest on the bank , and she foot be still in the water : she wooden shoe , with a wisp of straw in each , which she have worn , float down the stream , and thus Martha find she on come to bring she some coffee . in the meantime a messenger from the mayor 's house have be dispatch to she poor lodge to tell she `` to come to the mayor immediately , for he have something to tell she . '' it be too late ! a barber-surgeon be bring to open a vein in she arm ; but the poor woman be dead . `` she have drunk herself to death ! '' say the mayor . in the letter that bring the news of he brother 's death , the contents of the will have be mention , and it be a legacy of six hundred dollar to the glovemaker 's widow , who have once be he mother 's maid . the money be to be pay , accord to the mayor 's discretion , in larger or smaller sum , to she or to she child . `` there be some fuss between my brother and she , '' say the mayor . `` it be a good thing that she be dead ; for now the boy will have the whole , and I will get he into a house among respectable people . he may turn out a reputable work man . '' and Heaven give its blessing to these word . so the mayor send for the boy , promise to take care of he , and add that it be a good thing the lad 's mother be dead , inasmuch as she have be good for nothing . they bear she to the churchyard , to the cemetery of the poor , and Martha strew sand upon she grave , and plant a rose tree upon it , and the boy stand beside she . `` my dear mother ! '' he cry , as the tear fall fast . `` be it true what they say : that she be good for nothing ? '' `` no , she be good for much ! '' reply the old servant , and she look up indignantly . `` I know it many a year ago , and more than all since last night . I tell you she be worth much , and the Lord in heaven know it be true , let the world say as much as it choose , ` she be good for nothing . ' ''