142 Simeli Mountain BrothersS Grimm there be once two brother , the one rich , the other poor . the rich one , however , give nothing to the poor one , and he gain a scanty living by trading in corn , and often do so badly that he have no bread for he wife and child . once when he be wheeling a barrow through the forest he see , on one side of he , a great , bare , naked-looking mountain , and as he have never see it before , he stand still and stare at it with amazement . while he be thus stand he see a twelve great , wild man come towards he , and as he believe they be robber he push he barrow into the thicket , climb up a tree , and wait to see what would happen . the twelve man , however , go to the mountain and cry , `` Semsi mountain , Semsi mountain , open , '' and immediately the barren mountain open down the middle , and the twelve go into it , and as soon as they be within , it shut . after a short time , however , it open again , and the man come forth carry heavy sack on they shoulder , and when they be all once more in the daylight they say , `` Semsi mountain , Semsi mountain , shut thyself ; '' then the mountain close together , and there be no longer any entrance to be see to it , and the twelve go away . when they be quite out of sight the poor man get down from the tree , and be curious to know what really be secretly hide in the mountain . so he go up to it and say , `` Semsi mountain , Semsi mountain , open , '' and the mountain open to he also . the he go inside , and the whole mountain be a cavern full of silver and gold , and behind lay great pile of pearl and sparkling jewel , heap up like corn . the poor man hardly know what to do , and whether he might take any of these treasure for himself or not ; but at last he fill he pocket with gold , but he leave the pearl and precious stone where they be . when he come out again he also say , `` Semsi mountain , Semsi mountain , shut thyself ; '' and the mountain close itself , and he go home with he barrow . and now he have no more cause for anxiety , but could buy bread for he wife and child with he gold , and wine into the bargain . he live joyously and uprightly , give help to the poor , and do good to every one . when , however , the money come to a end he go to he brother , borrow a measure that hold a bushel , and bring himself some more , but do not touch any of the most valuable thing . when for the third time he want to fetch something , he again borrow the measure of he brother . the rich man have , however , long be envious of he brother 's possession , and of the handsome way of live which he have set on foot , and could not understand from whence the riches come , and what he brother want with the measure . then he think of a cunning trick , and cover the bottom of the measure with pitch , and when he get the measure back a piece of money be stick in it . he at once go to he brother and ask he , `` what hast thou be measure in the bushel measure ? '' `` corn and barley , '' say the other . then he show he the piece of money , and threaten that if he do not tell the truth he would accuse he before a court of justice . the poor man then tell he everything , just as it happen . the rich man , however , order he carriage to be make ready , and drive away , resolve to use the opportunity better than he brother have do , and to bring back with he quite different treasure . when he come to the mountain he cry , `` Semsi mountain , Semsi mountain , open . '' the mountain open , and he go inside it . there lay the treasure all before he , and for a long time he do not know which to clutch at first . at length he load himself with as many precious stone as he could carry . he wish to carry he burden outside , but , as he heart and soul be entirely full of the treasure , he have forget the name of the mountain , and cry , `` simeli mountain , Simeli mountain , open . '' that , however , be not the right name , and the mountain never stir , but remain shut . then he be alarm , but the longer he think about it the more he thought confuse themselves , and he treasure be no more of any use to he . in the evening the mountain open , and the twelve robber come in , and when they see he they laugh , and cry out , `` bird , have we catch thee at last ! Didst thou think we have never notice that thou hadst be in here twice ? we could not catch thee then ; this third time thou shalt not get out again ! '' then he cry , `` it be not I , it be my brother , '' but let he beg for he life and say what he would , they cut he head off .