161 Snow-White and Rose-Red BrothersS Grimm there be once a poor widow who live in a lonely cottage . in front of the cottage be a garden wherein stand two rose-trees , one of which bear white and the other red rose . she have two child who be like the two rose-trees , and one be call snow-white , and the other rose-red . they be as good and happy , as busy and cheerful as ever two child in the world be , only snow-white be more quiet and gentle than Rose - red . rose-red like better to run about in the meadow and field seek flower and catch butterfly ; but snow-white sit at home with she mother , and help she with she house-work , or read to she when there be nothing to do . the two child be so fond of each another that they always hold each other by the hand when they go out together , and when snow-white say , `` we will not leave each other , '' rose-red answer , `` never so long as we live , '' and they mother would add , `` what one have she must share with the other . '' they often run about the forest alone and gather red berry , and no beast do they any harm , but come close to they trustfully . the little hare would eat a cabbage-leaf out of they hand , the roe graze by they side , the stag leap merrily by they , and the bird sit still upon the bough , and sing whatever they know . no mishap overtook they ; if they have stay too late in the forest , and night come on , they lay themselves down near one another upon the moss , and sleep until morning come , and they mother know this and have no distress on they account . once when they have spend the night in the wood and the dawn have rouse they , they see a beautiful child in a shine white dress sit near they bed . he get up and look quite kindly at they , but say nothing and go away into the forest . and when they look round they find that they have be sleep quite close to a precipice , and would certainly have fall into it in the darkness if they have go only a few pace further . and they mother tell they that it must have be the angel who watch over good child . snow-white and rose-red keep they mother 's little cottage so neat that it be a pleasure to look inside it . in the summer rose-red take care of the house , and every morning lay a wreath of flower by she mother 's bed before she awake , in which be a rose from each tree . in the winter snow-white light the fire and hang the kettle on the wrekin . the kettle be of copper and shone like gold , so brightly be it polish . in the evening , when the snowflake fall , the mother say , `` go , snow-white , and bolt the door , '' and then they sit round the hearth , and the mother take she spectacles and read aloud out of a large book , and the two girl listen as they sit and span . and close by they lay a lamb upon the floor , and behind they upon a perch sit a white dive with its head hide beneath its wing . one evening , as they be thus sit comfortably together , some one knock at the door as if he wish to be let in . the mother say , `` Quick , rose-red , open the door , it must be a traveller who be seek shelter . '' rose-red go and push back the bolt , think that it be a poor man , but it be not ; it be a bear that stretch he broad , black head within the door . rose-red scream and spring back , the lamb bleat , the dive fluttered , and Snow-white hide herself behind she mother 's bed . but the bear begin to speak and say , `` do not be afraid , I will do you no harm ! I be half-frozen , and only want to warm myself a little beside you . '' `` Poor bear , '' say the mother , `` lie down by the fire , only take care that you do not burn you coat . '' then she cry , `` snow-white , rose-red , come out , the bear will do you no harm , he mean well . '' so they both come out , and by-and-by the lamb and dive come nearer , and be not afraid of he . the bear say , `` here , child , knock the snow out of my coat a little ; '' so they bring the broom and sweep the bear 's hide clean ; and he stretch himself by the fire and growl contentedly and comfortably . it be not long before they grow quite at home , and play trick with they clumsy guest . they tug he hair with they hand , put they foot upon he back and roll he about , or they take a hazel-switch and beat he , and when he growl they laugh . but the bear take it all in good part , only when they be too rough he call out , `` leave I alive , child , `` snowy-white , rosy-red , will you beat you lover dead ? '' when it be bed-time , and the other go to bed , the mother say to the bear , `` you can lie there by the hearth , and then you will be safe from the cold and the bad weather . '' as soon as day dawn the two child let he out , and he trot across the snow into the forest . Henceforth the bear come every evening at the same time , lay himself down by the hearth , and let the child amuse themselves with he as much as they like ; and they get so use to he that the door be never fasten until they black friend have arrive . when spring have come and all outside be green , the bear say one morning to snow-white , `` now I must go away , and can not come back for the whole summer . '' `` where be you go , then , dear bear ? '' ask snow-white . `` I must go into the forest and guard my treasure from the wicked dwarf . in the winter , when the earth be freeze hard , they be oblige to stay below and can not work they way through ; but now , when the sun have thaw and warm the earth , they break through it , and come out to pry and steal ; and what once get into they hand , and in they cave , do not easily see daylight again . '' snow-white be quite sorry for he go away , and as she unbolt the door for he , and the bear be hurry out , he catch against the bolt and a piece of he hairy coat be tear off , and it seem to snow-white as if she have see gold shine through it , but she be not sure about it . the bear run away quickly , and be soon out of sight behind the tree . a short time afterwards the mother send she child into the forest to get fire-wood . there they find a big tree which lay fell on the ground , and close by the trunk something be jump backwards and forwards in the grass , but they could not make out what it be . when they come nearer they see a dwarf with a old withered face and a snow-white beard a yard long . the end of the beard be catch in a crevice of the tree , and the little fellow be jump backwards and forwards like a dog tie to a rope , and do not know what to do . he glare at the girl with he fiery red eye and cry , `` why do you stand there ? can you not come here and help I ? '' `` what be you about there , little man ? '' ask rose-red . `` you stupid , prying goose ! '' answer the dwarf ; `` I be go to split the tree to get a little wood for cooking . the little bit of food that one of we want get burn up directly with thick log ; we do not swallow so much as you coarse , greedy folk . I have just drive the wedge safely in , and everything be go as I wish ; but the wretch wood be too smooth and suddenly spring asunder , and the tree close so quickly that I could not pull out my beautiful white beard ; so now it be tight in and I can not get away , and the silly , sleek , milk-faced thing laugh ! Ugh ! how odious you be ! '' the child try very hard , but they could not pull the beard out , it be catch too fast . `` I will run and fetch some one , '' say rose-red . `` you senseless goose ! '' snarl the dwarf ; `` why should you fetch some one ? you be already two too many for I ; can you not think of something better ? '' `` do not be impatient , '' say Snow-white , `` I will help you , '' and she pull she scissors out of she pocket , and cut off the end of the beard . as soon as the dwarf feel himself free he lay hold of a bag which lay amongst the root of the tree , and which be full of gold , and lift it up , grumble to himself , `` uncouth people , to cut off a piece of my fine beard . bad luck to you ! '' and then he swing the bag upon he back , and go off without even once look at the child . some time after that snow-white and rose-red go to catch a dish of fish . as they come near the brook they see something like a large grasshopper jump towards the water , as if it be go to leap in . they run to it and find it be the dwarf . `` where be you go ? '' say rose-red ; `` you surely do not want to go into the water ? '' `` I be not such a fool ! '' cry the dwarf ; `` do not you see that the accursed fish want to pull I in ? '' the little man have be sit there fishing , and unluckily the wind have twist he beard with the fishing-line ; just then a big fish bit , and the feeble creature have not strength to pull it out ; the fish keep the upper hand and pull the dwarf towards he . he hold on to all the reed and rush , but it be of little good , he be force to follow the movement of the fish , and be in urgent danger of be drag into the water . the girl come just in time ; they hold he fast and try to free he beard from the line , but all in vain , beard and line be entangled fast together . nothing be leave but to bring out the scissors and cut the beard , whereby a small part of it be lose . when the dwarf see that he scream out , `` be that civil , you toad-stool , to disfigure one 's face ? be it not enough to clip off the end of my beard ? now you have cut off the best part of it . I can not let myself be see by my people . I wish you have be make to run the sole off you shoe ! '' then he take out a sack of pearl which lay in the rush , and without say a word more he drag it away and disappear behind a stone . it happen that soon afterwards the mother send the two child to the town to buy needle and thread , and lace and ribbon . the road lead they across a heath upon which huge piece of rock lay strew here and there . now they notice a large bird hover in the air , fly slowly round and round above they ; it sink lower and lower , and at last settled near a rock not far off . directly afterwards they hear a loud , piteous cry . they run up and see with horror that the eagle have seize they old acquaintance the dwarf , and be go to carry he off . the child , full of pity , at once take tight hold of the little man , and pull against the eagle so long that at last he let he booty go . as soon as the dwarf have recover from he first fright he cry with he shrill voice , `` could you not have do it more carefully ! you drag at my brown coat so that it be all torn and full of hole , you helpless clumsy creature ! '' then he take up a sack full of precious stone , and slip away again under the rock into he hole . the girl , who by this time be use to he thanklessness , go on they way and do they business in the town . as they cross the heath again on they way home they surprise the dwarf , who have empty out he bag of precious stone in a clean spot , and have not think that anyone would come there so late . the evening sun shone upon the brilliant stone ; they glitter and sparkle with all color so beautifully that the child stand still and look at they . `` why do you stand gaping there ? '' cry the dwarf , and he ashen-gray face become copper-red with rage . he be go on with he bad word when a loud growling be hear , and a black bear come trot towards they out of the forest . the dwarf spring up in a fright , but he could not get to he cave , for the bear be already close . then in the dread of he heart he cry , `` dear Mr. Bear , spare I , I will give you all my treasure ; look , the beautiful jewel lie there ! Grant I my life ; what do you want with such a slender little fellow as I ? you would not feel I between you tooth . come , take these two wicked girl , they be tender morsel for you , fat as young quail ; for mercy 's sake eat they ! '' the bear take no heed of he word , but give the wicked creature a single blow with he paw , and he do not move again . the girl have run away , but the bear call to they , `` snow-white and rose-red , do not be afraid ; wait , I will come with you . '' then they know he voice and wait , and when he come up to they suddenly he bearskin fall off , and he stand there , a handsome man , clothe all in gold . `` I be a King 's son , '' he say , `` and I be bewitch by that wicked dwarf , who have steal my treasure ; I have have to run about the forest as a savage bear until I be free by he death . now he have get he well-deserved punishment . '' snow-white be marry to he , and rose-red to he brother , and they divide between they the great treasure which the dwarf have gather together in he cave . the old mother live peacefully and happily with she child for many year . she take the two rose-trees with she , and they stand before she window , and every year bear the most beautiful rose , white and red .