something . H. C. Andersen `` I want to be something ! '' say the eldest of five brother . `` I want to do something in the world . I do not care how humble my position may be in society , if I only effect some good , for that will really be something . I 'll make brick , for they be quite indispensable thing , and then I shall truly have do something . '' `` but that _ something _ will not be enough ! '' quoth the second brother . `` what you intend do be just as much as nothing at all . it be journeyman 's work , and can be do by a machine . no , I would rather be a bricklayer at once , for that _ be _ something real ; and that be what I will be . that bring rank ; as a bricklayer one belong to a guild , and be a citizen , and have one 's own flag and one 's own house of call . Yes , and if all go well , I will keep journeyman . I shall become a master bricklayer , and my wife will be a master 's wife -- that be what _ I _ call something . '' `` that be nothing at all ! '' say the third . `` that be beyond the pale of the guild , and there be many of those in a town that stand far above the mere master artizan . you may be a honest man ; but as a ` master ' you will after all only belong to those who be rank among common man . I know something better than that . I will be a architect , and will thus enter into the territory of art and speculation . I shall be reckon among those who stand high in point of intellect . I shall certainly have to serve up from the pickaxe , so to speak ; so I must begin as a carpenter 's apprentice , and must go about as a assistant , in a cap , though I be accustom to wear a silk hat . I shall have to fetch beer and spirit for the common journeyman , and they will call I ` thou , ' and that be insulting ! but I shall imagine to myself that the whole thing be only acting , and a kind of masquerade . to-morrow -- that be to say , when I have serve my time -- I shall go my own way , and the other will be nothing to I . I shall go to the academy , and get instruction in drawing , and shall be call a architect . _ that be something ! _ I may get to be call ` sir , ' and even ` worshipful sir , ' or even get a handle at the front or at the back of my name , and shall go on building and build , just as those before I have build . that will always be a thing to remember , and that be what I call something ! '' `` but I do not care at all for _ that _ something , '' say the fourth . '' _ I _ will not sail in the wake of other , and be a copyist . I will be a genius ; and will stand up greater than all the rest of you together . I shall be the creator of a new style , and will give the plan of a building suitable to the climate and the material of the country , for the nationality of the people , for the development of the age -- and a additional storey for my own genius . '' `` but suppose the climate and the material be bad , '' say the fifth , `` that would be a disastrous circumstance , for these two exert a great influence ! Nationality , moreover , may expand itself until it become affectation , and the development of the century may run wild with you work , as youth often run wild . I quite realize the fact that none of you will be anything real , however much you may believe in yourselve . but , do what you like , I will not resemble you : I shall keep on the outside of thing , and criticise whatever you produce . to every work there be attach something that be not right -- something that have go wrong ; and I will ferret that out and find fault with it ; and _ that _ will be do _ something _ ! '' and he keep he word ; and everybody say concern this fifth brother , `` there be certainly something in he ; he have a good head ; but he do nothing . '' and by that very mean they think _ something _ of he ! now , you see , this be only a little story ; but it will never end so long as the world last . but what become of the five brother ? why , this be _ nothing _ , and not _ something _ . listen , it be a capital story . the eldest brother , he who manufacture brick , soon become aware of the fact that every brick , however small it might be , produce for he a little coin , though this coin be only copper ; and many copper penny lay one upon the other can be change into a shine dollar ; and wherever one knock with such a dollar in one 's hand , whether at the baker 's , or the butcher 's , or the tailor 's -- wherever it may be , the door fly open , and the visitor be welcome , and get what he want . you see that be what come of brick . some of those belong to the eldest brother certainly crumble away , or break in two , but there be a use even for these . on the high rampart , the wall that keep out the sea , Margaret , the poor woman , wish to build herself a little house . all the faulty brick be give to she , and a few perfect one into the bargain , for the eldest brother be a good-natured man , though he certainly do not achieve anything beyond the manufacture of brick . the poor woman put together the house for herself . it be little and narrow , and the single window be quite crooked . the door be too low , and the thatch roof might have show better workmanship . but after all it be a shelter ; and from the little house you could look far across the sea , whose wave break vainly against the protect rampart on which it be build . the salt billow spurt they spray over the whole house , which be still stand when he who have give the brick for its erection have long be dead and bury . the second brother know better how to build a wall , for he have serve a apprenticeship to it . when he have serve he time and pass he examination he pack he knapsack and sing the journeyman 's song : `` while I be young I 'll wander , from place to place I 'll roam , and everywhere build house , until I come back home ; and youth will give I courage , and my true love will not forget : Hurrah then for a workman 's life ! I 'll be a master yet ! '' and he carry he idea into effect . when he have come home and become a master , he build one house after another in the town . he build a whole street ; and when the street be finish and become a ornament to the place , the house build a house for he in return , that be to be he own . but how can house build a house ? if you ask they they will not answer you , but people will understand what be mean by the expression , and say , ` certainly , it be the street that build he house for he . ' it be little , and the floor be cover with clay ; but when he dance with he bride upon this clay floor , it seem to become polished oak ; and from every stone in the wall spring forth a flower , and the room be gay , as if with the costliest paper-hanger 's work . it be a pretty house , and in it live a happy pair . the flag of the guild flutter before the house , and the journeyman and apprentice shout hurrah ! yes , he certainly be _ something _ ! and at last he die ; and _ that _ be something too . now come the architect , the third brother , who have be at first a carpenter 's apprentice , have worn a cap , and serve as a errand boy , but have afterwards go to the academy , and rise to become a architect , and to be call `` honor sir . '' Yes , if the house of the street have build a house for the brother who have become a bricklayer , the street now receive its name from the architect , and the handsomest house in it become he property . _ that _ be something , and _ he _ be something ; and he have a long title before and after he name . he child be call _ genteel _ child , and when he die he widow be `` a widow of rank , '' and _ that _ be something ! -- and he name always remain at the corner of the street , and live on in the mouth of every one as the street 's name -- and _ that _ be something ! now come the genius of the family , the fourth brother , who want to invent something new and original , and a additional storey on the top of it for himself . but the top storey tumble down , and he come tumble down with it , and break he neck . nevertheless he have a splendid funeral , with guild flag and music ; poem in the papers , and flower strew on the paving-stones in the street ; and three funeral oration be hold over he , each one longer than the last , which would have rejoice he greatly , for he always like it when people talk about he ; a monument also be erect over he grave . it be only one storey high , but still it be _ something _ . now he be dead like the three other brother ; but the last , the one who be a critic , outlive they all : and that be quite right , for by this mean he get the last word , and it be of great importance to he to have the last word . the people always say he have a good head of he own . at last he hour come , and he die , and come to the gate of Paradise . there soul always enter two and two , and he come up with another soul that want to get into Paradise too ; and who should this be but old dame Margaret from the house upon the sea wall . `` I suppose this be do for the sake of contrast , that I and this wretch soul should arrive here at exactly the same time ! '' say the critic . `` pray who be you , my good woman ? '' he ask . `` do you want to get in here too ? '' and the old woman curtsy as well as she could : she think it must be St. Peter himself talk to she . `` I be a poor old woman of a very humble family , '' she reply . `` I be old Margaret that live in the house on the sea wall . '' `` well , and what have you do ? what have you accomplish down there ? '' `` I have really accomplished nothing at all in the world : nothing that I can plead to have the door here open to I . it would be a real mercy to allow I to slip in through the gate . '' `` in what manner do you leave the world ? '' ask he , just for the sake of say something ; for it be wearisome work standing there and say nothing . `` why , I really do not know how I leave it . I be sick and miserable during my last year , and could not well bear creep out of bed , and go out suddenly into the frost and cold . it be a hard winter , but I have get out of it all now . for a few day the weather be quite calm , but very cold , as you honor must very well know . the sea be cover with ice as far as one could look . all the people from the town walk out upon the ice , and I think they say there be a dance there , and skate . there be beautiful music and a great feast there too ; the sound come into my poor little room , where I lay ill. . and it be towards the evening ; the moon have rise beautifully , but be not yet in its full splendor ; I look from my bed out over the wide sea , and far off , just where the sea and sky join , a strange white cloud come up . I lay look at the cloud , and I see a little black spot in the middle of it , that grow larger and larger ; and now I know what it mean , for I be old and experienced , though this token be not often see . I know it , and a shuddering come upon I . twice in my life I have see the same thing ; and I know there would be a awful tempest , and a spring flood , which would overwhelm the poor people who be now drink and dance and rejoice -- young and old , the whole city have issue forth -- who be to warn they , if no one see what be come yonder , or know , as I do , what it mean ? I be dreadfully alarm , and feel more lively than I have do for a long time . I creep out of bed , and get to the window , but could not crawl farther , I be so exhaust . but I manage to open the window . I see the people outside run and jump about on the ice ; I could see the beautiful flag that wave in the wind . I hear the boy shout ` hurrah ! ' and the servant man and maid sing . there be all kind of merriment go on . but the white cloud with the black spot ! I cry out as loud as I could , but no one hear I ; I be too far from the people . soon the storm would burst , and the ice would break , and all who be upon it would be lose without remedy . they could not hear I , and I could not come out to they . oh , if I could only bring they ashore ! then kind Heaven inspire I with the thought of set fire to my bed , and rather to let the house burn down , than that all those people should perish so miserably . I succeed in light up a beacon for they . the red flame blaze up on high , and I escape out of the door , but fall down exhaust on the threshold , and could get no farther . the flame rush out towards I , flicker through the window , and rise high above the roof . all the people on the ice yonder beheld it , and run as fast as they could , to give aid to a poor old woman who , they think , be be burn to death . not one remain behind . I hear they come ; but I also become aware of a rush sound in the air ; I hear a rumble like the sound of heavy artillery ; the spring-flood be lift the covering of ice , which presently crack and burst into a thousand fragment . but the people succeed in reach the sea-wall -- I save they all ! but I fancy I could not bear the cold and the fright , and so I come up here to the gate of Paradise . I be tell they be open to poor creature like I -- and now I have no house leave down upon the rampart : not that I think this will give I admission here . '' then the gate of heaven be open , and the angel lead the old woman in . she leave a straw behind she , a straw that have be in she bed when she set it on fire to save the life of many ; and this straw have be change into the purest gold -- into gold that grow and grow , and spread out into beauteous leaf and flower . `` look , this be what the poor woman bring , '' say the angel to the critic . `` what dost _ thou _ bring ? I know that thou hast accomplish nothing -- thou hast not make so much as a single brick . ah , if thou couldst only return , and effect at least so much as that ! probably the brick , when thou hadst make it , would not be worth much ; but if it be make with good-will , it would at least be _ something _ . but thou canst not go back , and I can do nothing for thee ! '' then the poor soul , the old dame who have live on the dyke , put in a petition for he . she say , `` he brother give I the brick and the piece out of which I build up my house , and that be a great deal for a poor woman like I . could not all those brick and piece be count as a single brick in he favor ? it be a act of mercy . he want it now ; and be not this the very fountain of mercy ? '' then the angel say : `` thy brother , he whom thou hast regard as the least among you all , he whose honest industry seem to thee as the most humble , hath give thee this heavenly gift . Thou shalt not be turn away . it shall be vouchsafe to thee to stand here without the gate , and to reflect , and repent of thy life down yonder ; but thou shalt not be admit until thou hast in real earnest accomplished _ something _ . '' `` I could have say that in better word ! '' think the critic , but he do not find fault aloud ; and for he , after all , that be