SOUP ON A SAUSAGE-PEG . H. C. Andersen `` that be a remarkably fine dinner yesterday , '' observe a old Mouse of the female sex to another who have not be at the festive gathering . `` I sit number twenty-one from the old mouse king , so that I be not badly place . should you like to hear the order of the banquet ? the course be very well arrange -- mouldy bread , bacon-rind , tallow candle , and sausage -- and then the same dish over again from the beginning : it be just as good as have two banquet in succession . there be as much joviality and agreeable jesting as in the family circle . nothing be leave but the peg at the end of the sausage . and the discourse turn upon these ; and at last the expression , ` Soup on sausage-rinds , ' or , as they have the proverb in the neighbouring country , ` Soup on a sausage-peg , ' be mention . every one have hear the proverb , but no one have ever taste the sausage-peg soup , much less prepared it . a capital toast be drunk to the inventor of the soup , and it be say he deserve to be a relieve officer . be not that witty ? and the old mouse king stand up , and promise that the young female mouse who could best prepare that soup should be he queen ; and a year be allow for the trial . '' `` that be not at all bad , '' say the other Mouse ; `` but how do one prepare this soup ? '' `` ah , how be it prepared ? that be just what all the young female mouse , and the old one too , be ask . they would all very much like to be queen ; but they do not want to take the trouble to go out into the world to learn how to prepare the soup , and that they would certainly have to do . but every one have not the gift of leave the family circle and the chimney corner . in foreign part one can not get cheese-rinds and bacon every day . no , one must bear hunger , and perhaps be eat up alive by a cat . '' such be probably the consideration by which the majority be deter from go out into the wide world and gain information . only four mouse announce themselves ready to depart . they be young and brisk , but poor . each of they wish to proceed to one of the four quarter of the globe , and then it would become manifest which of they be favor by fortune . every one take a sausage-peg , so as to keep in mind the object of the journey . the stiff sausage-peg be to be to they as a pilgrim 's staff . it be at the beginning of May that they set out , and they do not return till the May of the following year ; and then only three of they appear . the fourth do not report herself , nor be there any intelligence of she , though the day of trial be close at hand . `` yes , there be always some drawback in even the pleasantest affair , '' say the Mouse King . and then he give order that all mouse within a circuit of many mile should be invite . they be to assemble in the kitchen , where the three travel mouse would stand up in a row , while a sausage-peg , shroud in crape , be set up as a memento of the fourth , who be miss . no one be to proclaim he opinion till the mouse king have settle what be to be say . and now let we hear . _ what the first little Mouse have see and learn in she travels . _ `` when I go out into the wide world , '' say the little Mouse , `` I think , as many think at my age , that I have already learn everything ; but that be not the case . year must pass before one get so far . I go to sea at once . I go in a ship that steer towards the north . they have tell I that the ship 's cook must know how to manage thing at sea ; but it be easy enough to manage thing when one have plenty of side of bacon , and whole tub of salt pork , and mouldy flour . one have delicate living on board ; but one do not learn to prepare soup on a sausage-peg . we sail along for many day and night ; the ship rock fearfully , and we do not get off without a wetting . when we at last reach the port to which we be bind , I leave the ship ; and it be high up in the far north . `` it be a wonderful thing , to go out of one 's own corner at home , and sail in a ship , where one have a sort of corner too , and then suddenly to find oneself hundred of mile away in a strange land . I see great pathless forest of pine and birch , which smell so strong that I sneeze , and thought of sausage . there be great lake there too . when I come close to they the water be quite clear , but from a distance they look black as ink . Great swan float upon they : I think at first they be spot of foam , they lay so still ; but then I see they walk and fly , and I recognize they . they belong to the goose family -- one can see that by they walk ; for no one can deny he parentage . I keep with my own kind . I associate with the forest and field mouse , who , by the way , know very little , especially as regard cookery , though this be the very subject that have bring I abroad . the thought that soup might be boil on a sausage-peg be such a startling statement to they , that it fly at once from mouth to mouth through the whole forest . they declare the problem could never be solve ; and little do I think that there , in the very first night , I should be initiate into the method of its preparation . it be in the height of summer , and that , the mouse say , be the reason why the wood smell so strongly , and why the herb be so fragrant , and the lake so transparent and yet so dark , with they white swimming swan . `` on the margin of the wood , among three or four house , a pole as tall as the mainmast of a ship have be erect , and from its summit hang wreath and flutter ribbon : this be call a maypole . man and maid dance round the tree , and sing as loudly as they could , to the violin of the fiddler . there be merry doings at sundown and in the moonlight , but I take no part in they -- what have a little mouse to do with a May dance ? I sit in the soft moss and hold my sausage-peg fast . the moon throw its beam especially upon one spot , where a tree stand , cover with moss so exceedingly fine , I may almost venture to say it be as fine as the skin of the mouse king ; but it be of a green color , and that be a great relief to the eye . `` all at once , the most charming little people come march forth . they be only tall enough to reach to my knee . they look like man , but be better proportion : they call themselves elve , and have delicate clothes on , of flower leave trim with the wing of fly and gnat , which have a very good appearance . directly they appear , they seem to be seek for something -- I know not what ; but at last some of they come towards I , and the chief point to my sausage-peg , and say , ` that be just such a one as we want -- it be pointed -- it be capital ! ' and the longer he look at my pilgrim 's staff the more delighted he become . '' ` I will lend it , ' I say , ` but not to keep . ' '' ` not to keep ! ' they all repeat ; and they seize the sausage-peg , which I give up to they , and dance away to the spot where the fine moss grow ; and here they set up the peg in the midst of the green . they want to have a maypole of they own , and the one they now have seem cut out for they ; and they decorate it so that it be beautiful to behold . `` First , little spider spin it round with gold thread , and hang it all over with flutter veil and flag , so finely weave , bleached so snowy white in the moonshine , that they dazzle my eye . they take color from the butterfly 's wing , and strew these over the white linen , and flower and diamond gleam upon it , so that I do not know my sausage-peg again : there be not in all the world such a maypole as they have make of it . and now come the real great party of elf . they be quite without clothes , and look as genteel as possible ; and they invite I to be present at the feast ; but I be to keep at a certain distance , for I be too large for they . `` and now begin such music ! it sound like thousand of glass bell , so full , so rich , that I think the swan be sing . I fancy also that I hear the voice of the cuckoo and the blackbird , and at last the whole forest seem to join in . I hear child 's voice , the sound of bell , and the song of bird ; the most glorious melody -- and all come from the elf ' maypole , namely , my sausage-peg . I should never have believe that so much could come out of it ; but that depend very much upon the hand into which it fall . I be quite touch . I weep , as a little mouse may weep , with pure pleasure . `` the night be far too short ; but it be not longer up yonder at that season . in the morning dawn the breeze begin to blow , the mirror of the forest lake be cover with ripple , and all the delicate veil and flag flutter away in the air . the wave garland of spider 's web , the hanging bridge and balustrade , and whatever else they be call , fly away as if they be nothing at all . six elf bring I back my sausage-peg , and ask I at the same time if I have any wish that they could gratify ; so I ask they if they could tell I how soup be make on a sausage-peg . '' ` how _ we _ do it ? ' ask the chief of the elf , with a smile . ` why , you have just see it . I fancy you hardly know you sausage-peg again ? ' '' ` you only mean that as a joke , '' I reply . and then I tell they in so many word , why I have undertake a journey , and what great hope be found on the operation at home . ` what advantage , ' I ask , ` can accrue to we mouse king , and to we whole powerful state , from the fact of my have witness all this festivity ? I can not shake it out of the sausage-peg , and say , `` look , here be the peg , now the soup will come . '' that would be a dish that could only be put on the table when the guest have dine . ' -lrb-B- illustration : the elf apply for the LOAN of the sausage-peg . aaaaa -rrb-B- aaa `` then the elf dip he little finger into the cup of a blue violet , and say to I : '' ` see here ! I will anoint you pilgrim 's staff ; and when you go back to you country , and come to the castle of the mouse king , you have but to touch he with the staff , and violet will spring forth and cover its whole surface , even in the coldest winter-time . and so I think I have give you something to carry home , and a little more than something ! ' '' but before the little Mouse say what this `` something more '' be , she stretch she staff out towards the king , and in very truth the most beautiful bunch of violet burst forth ; and the scent be so powerful , that the mouse king incontinently order the mouse who stand nearest the chimney to thrust they tail into the fire and create a smell of burning , for the odour of the violet be not to be bear , and be not of the kind he like . `` but what be the ` something more , ' of which you speak ? '' ask the Mouse King . `` why , '' the little Mouse answer , `` I think it be what they call effect ! '' and herewith she turn the staff round , and lo ! there be not a single flower to be see upon it ; she only hold the naked skewer , and lift this up , as a musical conductor lift he _ baton _ . '' ` VioletsS , ' the elf say to I , ` be for sight , and smell , and touch . therefore it yet remain to provide for hearing and taste ! ' '' and now the little Mouse begin to beat time ; and music be hear , not such as sound in the forest among the elf , but such as be hear in the kitchen . there be a bubble sound of boil and roast ; and all at once it seem as if the sound be rush through every chimney , and pot and kettle be boil over . the fire-shovel hammer upon the brass kettle , and then , on a sudden , all be quiet again . they hear the quiet subdue song of the tea-kettle , and it be wonderful to hear -- they could not quite tell if the kettle be begin to sing or leave off ; and the little pot simmer , and the big pot simmer , and neither care for the other : there seem to be no reason at all in the pot . and the little Mouse flourish she _ baton _ more and more wildly ; the pot foam , throw up large bubble , boil over , and the wind roar and whistle through the chimney . oh ! it become so terrible , that the little Mouse lose she stick at last . `` that be a heavy soup ! '' say the Mouse King . `` Shall we not soon hear about the preparation ? '' `` that be all , '' say the little Mouse , with a bow . `` that be all ! then we should be glad to hear what the next have to relate , '' say the Mouse King . _ what the second little Mouse have to tell . _ `` I be bear in the palace library , '' say the second Mouse . `` I and several member of we family never know the happiness of get into the dining-room , much less into the store-room ; on my journey , and here to-day , be the only time I have see a kitchen . we have indeed often be compel to suffer hunger in the library , but we get a good deal of knowledge . the rumor penetrate even to we , of the royal prize offer to those who could cook soup upon a sausage-peg ; and it be my old grandmother who thereupon ferret out a manuscript , which she certainly could not read , but which she have hear read out , and in which it be write : ` those who be poet can boil soup upon a sausage-peg . ' she ask I if I be a poet . I feel quite innocent on the subject , and then she tell I I must go out , and manage to become one . I again ask what be requisite in that particular , for it be as difficult for I to find that out , as to prepare the soup ; but grandmother have hear a good deal of reading , and she say that three thing be especially necessary : ` understanding , imagination , feeling -- if you can manage to obtain these three , you be a poet , and the sausage-wide peg affair will be quite easy to you . ' `` and I go forth , and march towards the west , away into the world , to become a poet . `` understanding be the most important thing in every affair . I know that , for the two other thing be not hold in half such respect , and consequently I go out first to seek understanding . Yes , where do he dwell ? ` go to the ant and be wise , ' say the great king of the jew ; I know that from my library experience ; and I never stop till I come to the first great ant-hill , and there I place myself on the watch , to become wise . `` the ant be a respectable people . they be understand itself . everything with they be like a well-worked sum , that come right . to work and to lay egg , they say , be to live while you live , and to provide for posterity ; and accordingly that be what they do . they be divide into the clean and the dirty ant . the rank of each be indicate by a number , and the ant queen be number one ; and she view be the only correct one , she be the receptacle of all wisdom ; and that be important for I to know . she speak so much , and it be all so clever , that it sound to I like nonsense . she declare she ant-hill be the loftiest thing in the world ; though close by it grow a tree , which be certainly loftier , much loftier , that could not be deny , and therefore it be never mention . one evening a ant have lose herself upon the tree : she have creep up the stem -- not up to the crown , but higher than any ant have climb until then ; and when she turn , and come back home , she talk of something far higher than the ant-hill that she have find in she travels ; but the other ant consider that a insult to the whole community , and consequently she be condemn to wear a muzzle , and to continual solitary confinement . but a short time afterwards another ant get on the tree , and make the same journey and the same discovery ; and this one speak with emphasis , and indistinctly , they say ; and as , moreover , she be one of the pure ant and very much respect , they believe she ; and when she die they erect a egg-shell as a memorial of she , for they have a great respect for the science . I see , '' continue the little Mouse , `` that the ant be always run to and fro with they egg on they back . one of they once drop she egg ; she exert herself greatly to pick it up again , but she could not succeed . then two other come up , and help she with all they might , insomuch that they nearly drop they own egg over it ; but then they certainly at once relax they exertion , for each should think of himself first -- the ant queen have declare that by so do they exhibit at once heart and understanding . '' ` these two quality , ' she say , ` place we ant on the highest step among all reasoning being . understanding be see among we all in predominant measure , and I have the greatest share of understanding . ' and so say , she raise herself on she hind-legs , so that she be easily to be recognize . I could not be mistake , and I eat she up . we be to go to the ant to learn wisdom -- and I have get the queen ! `` I now proceed nearer to the before-mentioned lofty tree . it be a oak , and have a great trunk , and a far-spreading top , and be very old . I know that a living be dwell here , a Dryad as it be call , who be bear with the tree , and die with it . I have hear about this in the library ; and now I see a oak tree , and a oak girl . she utter a pierce cry when she see I so near . like all female , she be very much afraid of mouse ; and she have more ground for fear than other , for I might have gnaw through the stem of the tree on which she life depend . I accost the maiden in a friendly and honest way , and bid she take courage . and she take I up in she delicate hand ; and when I have tell she my reason for come out into the wide world , she promise I that perhaps on that very evening I should have one of the two treasure of which I be still in quest . she tell I that Phantasus , the genius of imagination , be she very good friend , that he be beautiful as the god of love , and that he rest many a hour under the leafy bough of the tree , which then rustle more strongly than ever over the pair of they . he call she he dryad , she say , and the tree he tree , for the grand gnarled oak be just to he taste , with its root burrow so deep in the earth , and the stem and crown rise so high out in the fresh air , and know the beating snow , and the sharp wind , and the warm sunshine as they deserve to be know . ` yes , ' the Dryad continue , ` the bird sing aloft there in the branch , and tell each other of strange country they have visit ; and on the only dead bough the stork have build a nest which be highly ornamental , and moreover , one get to hear something of the land of the pyramid . all that be very please to Phantasus ; but it be not enough for he : I myself must talk to he , and tell he of life in the wood , and must revert to my childhood , when I be little , and the tree such a delicate thing that a stinging-nettle overshadow it -- and I have to tell everything , till now that the tree be great and strong . Sit you down under the green thyme , and pay attention ; and when Phantasus come , I shall find a opportunity to pinch he wing , and to pull out a little feather . take the pen -- no better be give to any poet -- and it will be enough for you ! ' `` and when Phantasus come the feather be pluck , and I seize it , '' say the little Mouse . `` I put it in water , and hold it there till it grow soft . it be very hard to digest , but I nibble it up at last . it be very easy to gnaw oneself into be a poet , though there be many thing one must do . now I have these two thing , imagination and understanding , and through these I know that the third be to be find in the library ; for a great man have say and write that there be romance , whose sole and single use be that they relieve people of they superfluous tear , and that they be , in fact , a sort of sponge suck up human emotion . I remember a few of these old book which have always look especially palatable , and be much thumb and very greasy , have evidently absorb a great deal of feeling into themselves . `` I betake myself back to the library , and , so to speak , devour a whole novel -- that be , the essence of it , the interior part , for I leave the crust or binding . when I have digest this , and a second one in addition , I feel a stir within I , and I eat a bit of a third romance , and now I be a poet . I say so to myself , and tell the other also . I have headache , and chestache , and I can not tell what ache besides . I begin think what kind of story could be make to refer to a sausage-peg ; and many peg , and stick , and stave , and splinter come into my mind -- the ant queen must have have a particularly fine understanding . I remember the man who take a white stick in he mouth , by which mean he could render himself and the stick invisible ; I think of stick hobby-horses , of ` stock rhyme , ' of ` break the staff ' over a offender , and Heaven know of how many phrase more concern stick , stock , stave , and peg . all my thought run upon stick , stave , and peg ; and when one be a poet -lrb-B- and I be a poet , for I have work most terribly hard to become one -rrb-B- a person can make poetry on these subject . I shall therefore be able to wait upon you every day with a poem or a history -- and that be the soup I have to offer . '' `` let we hear what the third have to say , '' be now the Mouse King 's command . `` peep ! peep ! '' cry a small voice at the kitchen-door , and a little mouse -- it be the fourth of the mouse who have contend for the prize , the one whom they look upon as dead -- shot in like a arrow . she topple the sausage-peg with the crape cover over in a moment . she have be run day and night , and have travel on the railway , in the goods train , have watch she opportunity , and yet she have almost come too late . she press forward , look very much rumpled , and she have lose she sausage-peg , but not she voice , for she at once take up the word , as if they have be wait only for she , and want to hear none but she , and as if everything else in the world be of no consequence . she speak at once , and speak fully : she have appear so suddenly , that no one find time to object to she speech or to she , while she be speak . and let we hear what she say . -lrb-B- illustration : the GAOLER 's GRANDDAUGHTER take pity on the little mouse . aaaaa -rrb-B- aaa _ what the fourth Mouse , who speak before the third have speak , have to tell . _ `` I betake myself immediately to the largest town , '' she say ; `` the name have escape I -- I have a bad memory for name . from the railway I be carry , with some confiscate goods , to the council house , and when I arrive there I run into the dwelling of the gaoler . the gaoler be talk of he prisoner , and especially of one who have speak unconsidered word . these word have give rise to other , and these latter have be write down and record . '' ` the whole thing be soup on a sausage-peg , ' say the gaoler ; ` but the soup may cost he he neck . ' `` now , this give I a interest in the prisoner , '' continue the Mouse , `` and I watch my opportunity and slip into he prison -- for there be a mouse-hole to be find behind every lock door . the prisoner look pale , and have a great beard , and bright sparkling eye . the lamp flicker and smoke , but the wall be so accustomed to that , that they grow none the blacker for it . the prisoner scratch picture and verse in white upon the black ground , but I do not read they . I think he find it tedious , and I be a welcome guest . he lure I with bread crumb , with whistling , and with friendly word : he be glad to see I , and gradually I get to trust he , and we become good friend . he let I run upon he hand , he arm , and into he sleeve ; he let I creep about in he beard , and call I he little friend . I really get to love he , for these thing be reciprocal . I forget my mission in the wide world , forget my sausage-peg : that I have place in a crack in the floor -- it be lie there still . I wish to stay where I be , for if I go away , the poor prisoner would have no one at all , and that be have _ too _ little , in this world . _ I _ stay , but _ he _ do not stay . he speak to I very mournfully the last time , give I twice as much bread and cheese as usual , and kiss he hand to I ; then he go away , and never come back . I do not know he history . '' ` Soup on a sausage-peg ! ' say the gaoler , to whom I now go ; but I should not have trust he . he take I in he hand , certainly , but he pop I into a cage , a treadmill . that be a horrible engine , in which you go round and round without get any farther ; and people laugh at you into the bargain . `` the gaoler 's granddaughter be a charming little thing , with a mass of curly hair that shone like gold , and such merry eye , and such a smile mouth ! '' ` you poor little mouse , ' she say , as she peep into my ugly cage ; and she draw out the iron rod , and forth I jump , to the window board , and from thence to the roof spout . Free ! free ! I think only of that , and not of the goal of my journey . `` it be dark , and night be come on . I take up my quarter in a old tower , where dwelt a watchman and a owl . that be a creature like a cat , who have the great fail that she eat mouse . but one may be mistake , and so be I , for this be a very respectable , well-educated old owl : she know more than the watchman , and as much as i. the young owl be always make a racket ; but ` go and make soup on a sausage peg ' be the hardest word she could prevail on herself to utter , she be so fondly attach to she family . she conduct inspire I with so much confidence , that from the crack in which I be crouch I call out ` peep ! ' to she . this confidence of mine please she hugely , and she assure I I should be under she protection , and that no creature should be allow to do I wrong ; she would reserve I for herself , for the winter , when there would be short common . `` she be in every respect a clever woman , and explain to I how the watchman could only ` whoop ' with the horn that hang at he side , add , ` he be terribly conceit about it , and imagine he be a owl in the tower . want to do great thing , but be very small -- soup on a sausage-peg ! ' I beg the owl to give I the recipe for this soup , and then she explain the matter to I . '' ` Soup on a sausage-peg , ' she say , ` be only a human proverb , and be to be understand thus : each think he own way the best , but the whole signify nothing . ' '' ` nothing ! ' '' I exclaim . `` I be quite strike . truth be not always agreeable , but truth be above everything ; and that be what the old owl say . I now think about it , and readily perceive that if I bring what be _ above everything _ I bring something far beyond soup on a sausage-peg . so I hasten away , that I might get home in time , and bring the highest and best , that be above everything -- namely , _ the truth _ . the mouse be a enlighten people , and the king be above they all . he be capable of make I queen , for the sake of truth . '' `` you truth be a falsehood , '' say the Mouse who have not yet speak . `` I can prepare the soup , and I mean to prepare it . '' _ how it be prepare . _ `` I do not travel , '' the third Mouse say . `` I remain in my country -- that be the right thing to do . there be no necessity for travel ; one can get everything as good here . I stay at home . I have not learn what I know from supernatural being , or gobble it up , or hold converse with owl . I have what I know through my own reflection . Will you make haste and put that kettle upon the fire ? so -- now water must be pour in -- quite full -- up to the brim ! -- so -- now more fuel -- make up the fire , that the water may boil -- it must boil over and over ! -- so -- I now throw the peg in . Will the king now be please to dip he tail in the boil water , and to stir it round with the say tail ? the longer the king stir it , the more powerful will the soup become . it cost nothing at all -- no further material be necessary , only stir it round ! '' `` can not any one else do that ? '' ask the Mouse King . `` no ; '' reply the mouse . `` the power be contain only in the tail of the Mouse King . '' and the water boil and bubble , and the Mouse King stand close beside the kettle -- there be almost danger in it -- and he put forth he tail , as the mouse do in the dairy , when they skim the cream from a pan of milk , afterwards lick they creamy tail ; but he tail only penetrate into the hot steam , and then he spring hastily down from the hearth . `` of course -- certainly you be my queen , '' he say . `` we 'll adjourn the soup question till we golden wedding in fifty year ' time , so that the poor of my subject , who will then be feed , may have something to which they can look forward with pleasure for a long time . '' -lrb-B- illustration : the mouse king understand how the soup be MADE . aaaaa -rrb-B- aaa and soon the wedding be hold . but many of the mouse say , as they be return home , that it could not be really call soup on a sausage-peg , but rather soup on a mouse 's tail . they say that some of the story have be very cleverly tell ; but the whole thing might have be different . '' _ I _ should have tell it so -- and so -- and so ! '' thus say the critic , who be always wise -- after the fact . and this story go out into the wide world , everywhere ; and opinion vary concern it , but the story remain as it be . and that be the best in great thing and in small , so also with regard to soup on a sausage-peg -- not to expect any thanks for it .