ST. JULIAN be PRAYER La Fontain to charm and philter , secret spell and prayer , how many round attribute all they care ! in these howe'er I never can believe , and laugh at folly that so much deceive . yet with the beauteous FAIR , ` tis very true , these word , as sacred virtue , oft they view ; the spell and philter wonder work in love HeartsS melt with charm suppose from pow ` r above ! MY aim be now to have recourse to these , and give a story that I trust will please , in which Saint Julian 's prayer , to Reynold D'Ast , produce a benefit , good fortune class . have he neglect to repeat the charm , believe so thoroughly to guard from harm , he would have find he cash account not right , and pass assuredly a wretched night . one day , to William 's castle as he move . three man , whose look he very much approve , and think such honest fellow he have round , they like could nowhere be discover round ; without suspect any thing be wrong , the three , with complaisance and fluent tongue , Saluted he in humble servile style , and ask , -lrb-B- the minute better to beguile , -rrb-B- if they might bear he company the way ; the honor would be great , and no delay ; besides , in travel ` tis safer find , and far more pleasant , when the party 's round ; so many robber through the province range , -lrb-B- continue they -rrb-B- ` tis wonderfully strange , the prince should not these villain more restrain ; but there : -- bad MEN will somewhere still remain . to they proposal Reynold soon agree , and they resolve together to proceed . when ` bout a league the traveller have move , discuss freely , as they all approve , the conversation turn on spell and prayer , they pow ` r o ` er worm of earth , or bird of air ; to charm the wolf , or guard from thunder 's roar , and many wonderful achievement more ; besides the cure a prayer would oft produce ; to man and beast it prove of sov ` reign use , Far greater than from doctor e ` er you 'll view , who , with they latin , make so much ado . in turn , the three pretended knowledge great , and mystick fact affect to relate , while Reynold silently attention pay to all the word the honest fellow say : -- Possess you not , say one , some secret prayer to bring you aid , when danger round you stare ? to this we reynold seriously reply , Myself , on secret spell , I do not pride ; but still some word I have that I repeat , each morn I travel , that I may not meet a horrid lodging where I stop at night ; ` Tis call SAINT JULIAN 's prayer that I recite , and truly I have find , that when I fail to say this prayer , I have reason to bewail . but rarely I neglect so good a thing , that ill avert , and may such blessing bring . and have you clearly say it , sir , to day ? cry one of those he meet upon he way . Yes , Reynold answer . well , reply the Wight ; I 'll wage , I be better lodge than you to-night . 'TWAS very cold , and darkness ` gan to peep ; the place be distant yet , where they might sleep . perhaps , say Reynold , ` tis you usual care , in travel , to say , like I , this prayer . not so , the other cried , to you I vow , invoke saint be not my practice now ; but should I lose , thenceforth I 'll they address . -- Said Reynold , readily I acquiesce ; my life I would venture , should you to a inn , for , in the town , I have neither friend nor kin , and , if you like , we 'll this exception make . the other answer : Well , the bet I 'll take ; you horse and coat against my purse you wage , and , sure of gain , readily engage . we Wight might then have thoroughly perceive , he horse be lose -- no chance to be relieve . beside a wood , as on the party move , the one , who bet have so much approve , now change he tone , and in a surly way , Exclaimed : -- Alight -- you 'll find it time to pray ; let I apprize you , distant be the place , and much you 'll need Saint Julian 's special grace . come off , I tell you : -- instantly they take he purse , horse , clothes , and all they hand could hook E ` en seize he boot , and say with subtle sneer , you foot , by walking , will not the worse appear ; then seek a diff ` rent road by rapid flight , and , presently the knave be out of sight ; while Reynold still with stocking , drawer , and shirt , but wet to skin , and covered o ` er with dirt : -lrb-B- the wind north-east in front -- as cold as clay ; -rrb-B- in doleful dump proceed on he way , and justly fear , that spite of faith and prayer , he now should meet , at night , with wretch fare . HOWEVER , some pleasing hope he still have yet , that , from he cloak-bag , he some clothes might get ; for , we should note , a servant he have bring , who in the neighborhood a farrier seek . to set a shoe upon he horse , and then should join he master on the road agen ; but that , as we shall find , be not the case , and Reynold 's dire misfortune thence we trace . in fact , the fellow , worthless we 'll suppose , have view from far what accident arise , then turn aside , he safety to secure , and leave he master danger to endure ; so steadily be keep upon the trot , to Castle-William , ere 'twas night , he get , and take the inn which have the most renown ; for fare and furniture within the town , there wait Reynold 's come at he ease , with fire and cheer that could not fail to please . he master , up to neck in dirt and wet , have num ` rous difficulty o ` er to get ; and when the snow , in flake obscure the air , with pierce cold and wind , he feel despair ; such ill he bear , that hanging might be think a bed of rose rather to be seek . chance so arrange ev ` ry thing around ALL good , or ALL that be bad be solely find ; when favor flow the number be so great , that ev ` ry wish upon we seem to wait ; but , if dispose , misfortune to bestow ; no ill forget : each poignant pang we know . in proof , attend my friend , this very night , the sad adventure that befall we wight , who , Castle-William do not reach till late , when they , a hour or more , have shut the gate . AT length we traveller approach the wall , and , somehow to the foot contrived to crawl ; a roof projection fortune lead he near , that join a house , and ` gin he heart to cheer . delighted with the change he now have get , he place himself upon the sheltered spot ; a lucky hit but seldom come alone ; some straw , by chance , be near the mansion throw , which Reynold ` neath the jut penthouse place there , God be praise , cry he , a bed I have trace . MEANWHILE , the storm from ev ` ry quarter press ; we traveller be soon to death distressed ; with cold benumb ; by fall despair o ` erspread ; he tremble , groan : -- tooth chatter in he head ; so loud he plaint , at length they reach the ear of one who dwell within the mansion near : a servant girl ; she mistress brisk and gay : a youthful widow , charming as the day ; the governor she privately receive : a noble marquis , who she care relieved . Oft interrupt when he seek the fair , and wish at ease she company to share ; Desirous too of pass quite unknown , a private door he presently be show , that open to the field , and give access : through this he visit with such address , that none within the town he commerce view , nor e ` en a servant 's eye he course pursue . Surprise I feel , since pleasure of the mind , apparently be not for lord design ; more pleased they seem when make the talk around and soft amours divulge , delight be find . it happen that the night we Job arrive , and , stretch on straw , misfortune just survive , the lady think she fond gallant to see , and ev ` ry moment hope with he to be . the supper ready , and the room prepare , each rarity be serve : no trouble spare ; bath , perfume , wine , most exquisite , in place , and ev ` ry thing around display grace , with Cupid 's whole artillery in view , not he , who would with sigh alone pursue , but that kind god who always favor show , the source of happiness , whence pleasure flow . MEANWHILE , however , while thus the lady seek . by ev ` ry charm to please , a note be bring ; a page convey it , by the marquis send , to say he come business would prevent . the disappointment doubtless be severe , but consolation certainly be near ; it prove to reynold wonderfully kind , for scarcely have we traveller resign , and groan aloud , but , tender as she dame , in haste the confidential servant come , and to the widow say : -- I hear below some poor unfortunate o ` ercome with woe ; ` Tis pierce cold , and he perhaps will die some place , pray grant , where he to-night may lie . most readily , reply the courteous fair , we never use the garret : -- lodge he there ; some straw upon a couch will make a bed , on which the wand ` rer may repose he head ; shut well the door , but first provide some meat , and then permit he thither to retreat . without this timely help 'twa clear we wight have ne'er survive the horror of the night ; the door be ope 'd , and Reynold bless the hand that give relief , and stopt life 's ebb sand . he tale he tell ; get spirit , strength , and ease ; in person tall , well make , and form to please , he look not like a novice in amour , though young , and seek shelter at a door . he want of dress and miserable state raise shame indeed , and show distress be great . though LOVE be see in Nature 's pure array , no dirt appear , however you survey . THIS servant girl now hasten to the fair , and ev ` ry circumstance detail with care . See , say the lady , if within the press there be not clothes to furnish he a dress ; my husband , now no more , must some have leave ; Yes , say the girl , you be not of they bereft , I recollect he wardrobe do abound ; and presently a handsome suit she find . meanwhile the lady have learn the name of Reynold D'Ast , he quality and fame , -lrb-B- himself it seem particulars detail , while all around he suff ` ring keen bewail , -rrb-B- she order give , the bath for she prepared should now receive the man she care have spare . unasked , the stranger this attention get , and well perfumed ere clothes they would allot . when dress , he wait on the widow fair , and pay he compliment with graceful air . the supper -lrb-B- for the marquis first design -rrb-B- at length be serve with taste the most refined . we trav ` ller glad , a appetite display ; the lady carefully she guest survey , and anxious seem to gratify he wish , by help what appear he favorite dish . already , perhaps , she feel a Cupid 's dart , and in she throbbing bosom know the smart ; or sympathy , or pity for he woe , might touch the spring whence softest passion flow . on ev ` ry side assail the youthful dame Herself surrender unto Cupid 's flame . should I give way , say she , who 'll tell the tale ? no risk be run if secrecy prevail . the marquis merit to be play the trick ; he no excuse can have , unless he be sick . one sin against another I may weigh , and man for man will equally repay . so inexperienced Reynold be not find , but that he see how thing be go round , and , that Saint Julian 's prayer would yet succeed , to give he all the lodge he might need . the supper o ` er , we couple leave alone , what fairer field could truly have be show ? the belle now wear a smart become dress , design , in ev ` ry view , to prepossess . 'twa NEGLIGENCE , so requisite to please and fascinate , with airy , careless ease , accord to the taste which I pursue , that make she charm so exquisite to view . no gaudy tinsel : all be flow light ; Though not superb , yet please to the sight ; a neckerchief , where much should be conceal , be make so narrow , -- beauty half reveal ; beneath be shade -- what word can ne'er express ; and Reynold see enough the rest to guess . no more I say ; the belle indeed be fair , possessed of youth and all engaging air ; Tall , nicely form ; each grace , that heart could win ; not much of fat , nor yet appear too thin . emotion , at the view , who would not feel ? to soft delight what bosom prove of steel ? no marble bust , philosopher , nor stone , but similar sensation would have show . the silence first be break by the dame ; who speak so freely , Reynold bolder come . he know not well , howe'er , discourse to find ; to help he out the widow be incline ; Said she , you much remind I of a friend , Whose ev ` ry wish I seek with mine to blend my husband -lrb-B- rest he soul ! -rrb-B- have just those eye , that look , air , mouth : -- the very height and size : you greatly honor I , the spark reply : you charm howe'er might well have be he pride ; I ne'er beheld such soft engaging mien : on earth , like beauty never yet be see . but , in extreme to be , appear my lot ; just now I feel quite chill : -- at present hot ; Pray tell I which be best ? the fair look down , and humbly seem to wave the proffer crown , that she might still more flattery receive Address not small , if we 'll we eye believe . the swain now praise each charm within he view , and whatsoe'er he wish could pursue ; where hope be strong , and expectation high , she would not long be cruel and deny . to give the praise , you due , the lover cry , and note the beauty that my heart divide , ` twould take a age , and I have a single night , which surely might be pass with more delight . the widow smile ; enough it seem be say ; and Reynold shorten -- what to nothing lead . in war or love , time equally be dear ; more happy than we spark none could appear ; no point but what he gain ; the smile dame resistance only show to raise the flame ; nor more nor less ; each belle like art have get , and practise at will , or maid or not . BUT truly , it be never my intent to count each favor she to Reynold lend ; ParticularsS exact of ev ` ry kiss , and all the prelude incident to bliss ; both , doubtless , know more way than one to please ; and seek , with anxious care , love 's charm to seize . on recollection of the wretch state in which we traveller have move of late , some favor be bestow : -- there , cry the dame , be something to repay the road you come ; this for the cold ; that fear ; there thief disgrace ; so , one by one , the whole be soon efface . in this way to be pay for ill we meet , who would not be satisfy with boon so sweet ? and we conclude , that Reynold on the spot , Love 's be ` rous recompense of pleasure get . now easy conversation be renew ; then mutual kiss ; ev ` ry sweet pursued . 'twa time for bed ; howe'er , the widow fair determine that she own the spark should share ; 'twa prudent , doubtless ; like a lady wise ; gallantly do : one room would well suffice . what further pass betwixt the pair that night ; I can not say , though we 'll believe 'twa right ; between the clothes when lay , and unrestrained , most clearly , Reynold all he wish gain . there he be recompense for ev ` ry grief ; the lady too , receive so much relief , that she desire he company again , but still these visit secret should remain ; 'Twas requisite the governor to see ; Howe'er the dame delighted seem to be , and not content with what she have bestow , a purse well store with gold to Reynold show : he take no more , indeed , than what would pay the bare expense on he homeward way ; then seek the street that to the tavern lead , where still he lazy servant be in bed ; the fellow maul ; then change throughout he dress ; since to the cloak-bag now he have access . he fortune to complete , that day they take the very wretch that he wish to hook . he to the judge repair with ev ` ry haste ; in such a case you never time should waste ; for , once the thing be into court receive , ` ti like the lion 's den : naught e ` er 's retrieve ; they hand be close , not ` gainst what may be bring but to secure what from they grasp be seek . who seek redress by law , fact oft have show , May bless he star if he but keep he own . the trial o ` er , a gallows treble-faced , be , for they swinging , in the market place , one of the three harangue the mob around , -lrb-B- he speech be for the other also find -rrb-B- then , ` bout they neck the halter be tie , Repentant and confess the culprit die . who , after this , will doubt the pow ` r of prayer ? these silly knave have banish all they care ; and when at ease they think to skip and prance , be seize and quickly teach another dance . on t ` other hand , where dire distress prevail , and death , in various way , we spark assail , a beauty suddenly he sens charm , who might a prelate 's bosom have alarm . so truly fortunate , indeed , he lot , again he money , baggage , horse he get ; and , thank Saint Julian , howsoever toss , he pass a blissful night that nothing cost .