105 Stories about Snakes BrothersS Grimm First Story . there be once a little child whose mother give she every afternoon a small bowl of milk and bread , and the child seat herself in the yard with it . when she begin to eat however , a snake come creep out of a crevice in the wall , dip its little head in the dish , and eat with she . the child have pleasure in this , and when she be sit there with she little dish and the snake do not come at once , she cry , `` Snake , snake , come swiftly hither come , thou tiny thing , Thou shalt have thy crumb of bread , Thou shalt refresh thyself with milk . '' then the snake come in haste , and enjoy its food . moreover it show gratitude , for it bring the child all kind of pretty thing from its hidden treasure , bright stone , pearl , and golden plaything . the snake , however , only drink the milk , and leave the bread-crumbs alone . then one day the child take its little spoon and strike the snake gently on its head with it , and say , `` eat the bread-crumbs as well , little thing . '' the mother , who be stand in the kitchen , hear the child talk to someone , and when she see that she be strike a snake with she spoon , run out with a log of wood , and kill the good little creature . from that time forth , a change come over the child . as long as the snake have eat with she , she have grow tall and strong , but now she lose she pretty rosy cheek and waste away . it be not long before the funeral bird begin to cry in the night , and the redbreast to collect little branch and leaf for a funeral garland , and soon afterwards the child lay on she bier . Second Story . a orphan child be sit on the town wall spinning , when she see a snake come out of a hole low down in the wall . swiftly she spread out beside this one of the blue silk handkerchief which snake have such a strong liking for , and which be the only thing they will creep on . as soon as the snake see it , it go back , then return , bring with it a small golden crown , lay it on the handkerchief , and then go away again . the girl take up the crown , it glitter and be of delicate golden filagree work . it be not long before the snake come back for the second time , but when it no longer see the crown , it creep up to the wall , and in its grief smite its little head against it as long as it have strength to do so , until at last it lay there dead . if the girl have but leave the crown where it be , the snake would certainly have bring still more of its treasure out of the hole . Third Story . a snake cry , `` Huhu , huhu . '' a child say , `` come out . '' the snake come out , then the child inquire about she little sister : `` hast thou not see little red-stockings ? '' the snake say , `` no. '' `` neither have i. '' `` then I be like you . Huhu , huhu , huhu . ''