166 strong Hans BrothersS Grimm there be once a man and a woman who have a only child , and live quite alone in a solitary valley . it come to pass that the mother once go into the wood to gather branch of fir , and take with she little Hans , who be just two year old . as it be spring-time , and the child take pleasure in the many-coloured flower , she go still further onward with he into the forest . suddenly two robber spring out of the thicket , seize the mother and child , and carry they far away into the black forest , where no one ever come from one year 's end to another . the poor woman urgently beg the robber to set she and she child free , but they heart be make of stone , they would not listen to she prayer and entreaty , and drive she on farther by force . after they have work they way through bush and briar for about two mile , they come to a rock where there be a door , at which the robber knock and it open at once . they have to go through a long dark passage , and at last come into a great cavern , which be light by a fire which burn on the hearth . on the wall hang sword , sabre , and other deadly weapon which gleam in the light , and in the midst stand a black table at which four other robber be sit gambling , and the captain sit at the head of it . as soon as he see the woman he come and speak to she , and tell she to be at ease and have no fear , they would do nothing to hurt she , but she must look after the house-keeping , and if she keep everything in order , she should not fare ill with they . thereupon they give she something to eat , and show she a bed where she might sleep with she child . the woman stay many year with the robber , and Hans grow tall and strong . he mother tell he story , and teach he to read a old book of tale about knight which she find in the cave . when Hans be nine year old , he make himself a strong club out of a branch of fir , hide it behind the bed , and then go to he mother and say , `` dear mother , pray tell I who be my father ; I must and will know . '' he mother be silent and would not tell he , that he might not become home-sick ; moreover she know that the godless robber would not let he go away , but it almost break she heart that Hans should not go to he father . in the night , when the robber come home from they rob expedition , Hans bring out he club , stand before the captain , and say , `` I now wish to know who be my father , and if thou dost not at once tell I I will strike thee down . '' then the captain laugh , and give Hans such a box on the ear that he roll under the table . Hans get up again , hold he tongue , and think , `` I will wait another year and then try again , perhaps I shall do better then . '' when the year be over , he bring out he club again , rub the dust off it , look at it well , and say , `` it be a stout strong club . '' at night the robber come home , drink one jug of wine after another , and they head begin to be heavy . then Hans bring out he club , place himself before the captain , and ask he who be he father ? but the captain again give he such a vigorous box on the ear that Hans roll under the table , but it be not long before he be up again , and beat the captain and the robber so with he club , that they could no longer move either they arm or they leg . he mother stand in a corner full of admiration of he bravery and strength . when Hans have do he work , he go to he mother , and say , `` now I have show myself to be in earnest , but now I must also know who be my father . '' `` Dear Hans , '' answer the mother , `` come , we will go and seek he until we find he . '' she take from the captain the key to the entrance-door , and Hans fetch a great meal-sack and pack into it gold and silver , and whatsoever else he could find that be beautiful , until it be full , and then he take it on he back . they leave the cave , but how Hans do open he eye when he come out of the darkness into daylight , and see the green forest , and the flower , and the bird , and the morning sun in the sky . he stand there and wonder at everything just as if he have not be very wise . he mother look for the way home , and when they have walk for a couple of hour , they get safely into they lonely valley and to they little house . the father be sit in the doorway . he weep for joy when he recognize he wife and hear that Hans be he son , for he have long regard they both as dead . but Hans , although he be not twelve year old , be a head taller than he father . they go into the little room together , but Hans have scarcely put he sack on the bench by the stove , than the whole house begin to crack the bench break down and then the floor , and the heavy sack fall through into the cellar . `` God save we ! '' cry the father , `` what be that ? now thou hast break we little house to piece ! '' `` do not grow any gray hair about that , dear father , '' answer Hans ; `` there , in that sack , be more than be want for a new house . '' the father and Hans at once begin to build a new house ; to buy cattle and land , and to keep a farm . Hans plough the field , and when he follow the plough and push it into the ground , the bullock have scarcely any need to draw . the next spring , Hans say , `` keep all the money and get a walking-stick that weigh a hundred-weight make for I that I may go a-travelling . '' when the wished-for stick be ready , he leave he father 's house , go forth , and come to a deep , dark forest . there he hear something crunch and crack , look round , and see a fir-tree which be wind round like a rope from the bottom to the top , and when he look upwards he see a great fellow who have lay hold of the tree and be twist it like a willow-wand . `` Hollo ! '' cry Hans , `` what art thou do up there ? '' the fellow reply , `` I get some faggot together yesterday and be twist a rope for they . '' `` that be what I like , '' think Hans , `` he have some strength , '' and he call to he , `` leave that alone , and come with I . '' the fellow come down , and he be taller by a whole head than Hans , and Hans be not little . `` Thy name be now fir-twister , '' say Hans to he . thereupon they go further and hear something knock and hammer with such force that the ground shake at every stroke . shortly afterwards they come to a mighty rock , before which a giant be stand and strike great piece of it away with he fist . when Hans ask what he be about , he answer , `` at night , when I want to sleep , bear , wolf , and other vermin of that kind come , which sniff and snuffle about I and will not let I rest ; so I want to build myself a house and lay myself inside it , so that I may have some peace . '' `` oh , indeed , '' think Hans , `` I can make use of this one also ; '' and say to he , `` leave thy house-building alone , and go with I ; thou shalt be call rock-splitter . '' the man consent , and they all three roam through the forest , and wherever they go the wild beast be terrify , and run away from they . in the evening they come to a old desert castle , go up into it , and lay themselves down in the hall to sleep . the next morning Hans go into the garden . it have run quite wild , and be full of thorn and bush . and as he be thus walk round about , a wild boar rush at he ; he , however , give it such a blow with he club that it fall directly . he take it on he shoulder and carry it in , and they put it on a spit , roasted it , and enjoy themselves . then they arrange that each day , in turn , two should go out hunting , and one should stay at home , and cook nine pound of meat for each of they . fir-twister stay at home the first , and Hans and Rock-splitter go out hunting . when fir-twister be busy cooking , a little shrivelled-up old mannikin come to he in the castle , and ask for some meat . `` be off , sly hypocrite , '' he answer , `` thou needest no meat . '' but how astonished fir-twister be when the little insignificant dwarf spring up at he , and belabour he so with he fist that he could not defend himself , but fall on the ground and gasp for breath ! the dwarf do not go away until he have thoroughly vent he anger on he . when the two other come home from hunting , fir-twister say nothing to they of the old mannikin and of the blow which he himself have receive , and think , `` when they stay at home , they may just try they chance with the little scrubbing-brush ; '' and the mere thought of that give he pleasure already . the next day rock-splitter stay at home , and he fare just as fir-twister have do , he be very ill-treated by the dwarf because he be not willing to give he any meat . when the other come home in the evening , fir-twister easily see what he have suffer , but both keep silence , and think , `` Hans also must taste some of that soup . '' Hans , who have to stay at home the next day , do he work in the kitchen as it have to be do , and as he be stand skim the pan , the dwarf come and without more ado demand a bit of meat . then Hans think , `` he be a poor wretch , I will give he some of my share , that the other may not run short , '' and hand he a bit . when the dwarf have devour it , he again ask for some meat , and good-natured Hans give it to he , and tell he it be a handsome piece , and that he be to be content with it . but the dwarf beg again for the third time . `` Thou art shameless ! '' say Hans , and give he none . then the malicious dwarf want to spring on he and treat he as he have treat fir-twister and rock-splitter , but he have get to the wrong man . Hans , without exert himself much , give he a couple of blow which make he jump down the castle step . Hans be about to run after he , but fall right over he , for he be so tall . when he rise up again , the dwarf have get the start of he . Hans hurry after he as far as the forest , and see he slip into a hole in the rock . Hans now go home , but he have mark the spot . when the two other come back , they be surprise that Hans be so well . he tell they what have happen , and then they no longer conceal how it have fare with they . Hans laugh and say , `` it serve you quite right ; why be you so greedy with you meat ? it be a disgrace that you who be so big should have let yourselve be beat by the dwarf . '' thereupon they take a basket and a rope , and all three go to the hole in the rock into which the dwarf have slip , and let Hans and he club down in the basket . when Hans have reach the bottom , he find a door , and when he open it a maiden be sit there who be lovely as any picture , nay , so beautiful that no word can express it , and by she side sit the dwarf and grin at Hans like a sea-cat ! she , however , be bind with chain , and look so mournfully at he that Hans feel great pity for she , and think to himself , `` Thou must deliver she out of the power of the wicked dwarf , '' and give he such a blow with he club that he fall down dead . immediately the chain fall from the maiden , and Hans be enrapture with she beauty . she tell he she be a King 's daughter whom a savage count have steal away from she home , and imprison there among the rock , because she would have nothing to say to he . the count have , however , set the dwarf as a watchman , and he have make she bear misery and vexation enough . and now Hans place the maiden in the basket and have she draw up ; the basket come down again , but Hans do not trust he two companion , and think , `` they have already show themselves to be false , and tell I nothing about the dwarf ; who know what design they may have against I ? '' so he put he club in the basket , and it be lucky he do ; for when the basket be half-way up , they let it fall again , and if Hans have really be sit in it he would have be kill . but now he do not know how he be to work he way out of the depths , and when he turn it over and over in he mind he find no counsel . `` it be indeed sad , '' say he to himself , `` that I have to waste away down here , '' and as he be thus walk backwards and forwards , he once more come to the little chamber where the maiden have be sit , and see that the dwarf have a ring on he finger which shone and sparkle . then he draw it off and put it on , and when he turn it round on he finger , he suddenly hear something rustle over he head . he look up and see spirit of the air hover above , who tell he he be they master , and ask what he desire might be ? Hans be at first strike dumb , but afterwards he say that they be to carry he above again . they obey instantly , and it be just as if he have fly up himself . when , however , he be above again , he find no one in sight . fir-twister and rock-splitter have hurry away , and have take the beautiful maiden with they . but Hans turn the ring , and the spirit of the air come and tell he that the two be on the sea . Hans run and run without stop , until he come to the sea-shore , and there far , far out on the water , he perceive a little boat in which he faithless comrade be sit ; and in fierce anger he leap , without think what he be do , club in hand into the water , and begin to swim , but the club , which weigh a hundredweight , drag he deep down until he be all but drown . then in the very nick of time he turn he ring , and immediately the spirit of the air come and bear he as swift as lightning into the boat . he swing he club and give he wicked comrade the reward they merit and throw they into the water , and then he sail with the beautiful maiden , who have be in the greatest alarm , and whom he deliver for the second time , home to she father and mother , and marry she , and all rejoiced exceedingly .