56 Sweetheart Roland BrothersS Grimm there be once on a time a woman who be a real witch and have two daughter , one ugly and wicked , and this one she love because she be she own daughter , and one beautiful and good , and this one she hate , because she be she step-daughter . the step-daughter once have a pretty apron , which the other fancy so much that she become envious , and tell she mother that she must and would have that apron . `` be quiet , my child , '' say the old woman , `` and thou shalt have it . Thy step-sister have long deserve death , to-night when she be asleep I will come and cut she head off . only be careful that thou art at the far-side of the bed , and push she well to the front . '' it would have be all over with the poor girl if she have not just then be stand in a corner , and hear everything . all day long she dare not go out of door , and when bed-time have come , the witch 's daughter get into bed first , so as to lie at the far side , but when she be asleep , the other push she gently to the front , and take for herself the place at the back , close by the wall . in the night , the old woman come creep in , she hold a axe in she right hand , and feel with she left to see if anyone be lie at the outside , and then she grasp the axe with both hand , and cut she own child 's head off . when she have go away , the girl get up and go to she sweetheart , who be call Roland , and knock at he door . when he come out , she say to he , `` hear I , dearest Roland , we must fly in all haste ; my step-mother want to kill I , but have strike she own child . when daylight come , and she see what she have do , we shall be lose . '' `` but , '' say Roland , `` I counsel thee first to take away she magic wand , or we can not escape if she pursue we . '' the maiden fetch the magic wand , and she take the dead girl 's head and drop three drop of blood on the ground , one in front of the bed , one in the kitchen , and one on the stair . then she hurry away with she lover . when the old witch get up next morning , she call she daughter , and want to give she the apron , but she do not come . then the witch cry , `` where art thou ? '' `` here , on the stair , I be sweeping , '' answer the first drop of blood . the old woman go out , but see no one on the stair , and cry again , `` where art thou ? '' `` here in the kitchen , I be warm myself , '' cry the second drop of blood . she go into the kitchen , but find no one . then she cry again , `` where art thou ? '' `` ah , here in the bed , I be sleep . '' cry the third drop of blood . she go into the room to the bed . what do she see there ? she own child , whose head she have cut off , bath in she blood . the witch fall into a passion , spring to the window , and as she could look forth quite far into the world , she perceive she step-daughter hurry away with she sweetheart Roland . `` that shall not serve you , '' cry she , `` even if you have get a long way off , you shall still not escape I . '' she put on she many league boot , in which go a hour 's walk at every step , and it be not long before she overtake they . the girl , however , when she see the old woman stride towards she , change , with she magic wand , she sweetheart Roland into a lake , and herself into a duck swimming in the middle of it . the witch place herself on the shore , throw bread-crumbs in , and give herself every possible trouble to entice the duck ; but the duck do not let herself be entice , and the old woman have to go home at night as she have come . on this the girl and she sweetheart Roland resume they natural shape again , and they walk on the whole night until daybreak . then the maiden change herself into a beautiful flower which stand in the midst of a briar hedge , and she sweetheart Roland into a fiddler . it be not long before the witch come stride up towards they , and say to the musician , `` dear musician , may I pluck that beautiful flower for myself ? '' `` oh , yes , '' he reply , `` I will play to you while you do it . '' as she be hastily creep into the hedge and be just go to pluck the flower , for she well know who the flower be , he begin to play , and whether she would or not , she be force to dance , for it be a magical dance . the quicker he play , the more violent spring be she force to make , and the thorn tear she clothes from she body , and prick she and wound she till she bleed , and as he do not stop , she have to dance till she lay dead on the ground . when they be deliver , Roland say , `` now I will go to my father and arrange for the wedding . '' `` then in the meantime I will stay here and wait for thee , '' say the girl , `` and that no one may recognize I , I will change myself into a red stone land-mark . '' then Roland go away , and the girl stand like a red land-mark in the field and wait for she beloved . but when Roland get home , he fall into the snare of another , who prevail on he so far that he forget the maiden . the poor girl remain there a long time , but at length , as he do not return at all , she be sad , and change herself into a flower , and think , `` some one will surely come this way , and trample I down . '' it befall , however , that a shepherd keep he sheep in the field , and see the flower , and as it be so pretty , pluck it , take it with he , and lay it away in he chest . from that time forth , strange thing happen in the shepherd 's house . when he arise in the morning , all the work be already do , the room be sweep , the table and bench clean , the fire on the hearth be light , and the water be fetch , and at noon , when he come home , the table be lay , and a good dinner serve . he could not conceive how this come to pass , for he never see a human being in he house , and no one could have conceal himself in it . he be certainly please with this good attendance , but still at last he be so afraid that he go to a wise woman and ask for she advice . the wise woman say , `` there be some enchantment behind it , listen very early some morning if anything be move in the room , and if thou seest anything , let it be what it may , throw a white cloth over it , and then the magic will be stop . '' the shepherd do as she bid he , and next morning just as day dawn , he see the chest open , and the flower come out . swiftly he spring towards it , and throw a white cloth over it . instantly the transformation come to a end , and a beautiful girl stand before he , who own to he that she have be the flower , and that up to this time she have attend to he housekeeping . she tell he she story , and as she please he he ask she if she would marry he , but she answer , `` no , '' for she want to remain faithful to she sweetheart Roland , although he have desert she , but she promise not to go away , but to keep house for the shepherd for the future . and now the time draw near when Roland 's wedding be to be celebrate , and then , accord to a old custom in the country , it be announce that all the girl be to be present at it , and sing in honor of the bridal pair . when the faithful maiden hear of this , she grow so sad that she think she heart would break , and she would not go thither , but the other girl come and take she . when it come to she turn to sing , she step back , until at last she be the only one left , and then she could not refuse . but when she begin she song , and it reach Roland 's ear , he spring up and cry , `` I know the voice , that be the true bride , I will have no other ! '' everything he have forget , and which have vanish from he mind , have suddenly come home again to he heart . then the faithful maiden hold she wedding with she sweetheart Roland , and grief come to a end and joy begin .