tenth evening . H. C. Andersen `` I know a old maid , '' say the moon . `` every winter she wear a wrapper of yellow satin , and it always remain new , and be the only fashion she follow . in summer she always wear the same straw hat , and I verily believe the very same grey-blue dress . `` she never go out , except across the street to a old female friend ; and in later year she do not even take this walk , for the old friend be dead . in she solitude my old maid be always busy at the window , which be adorn in summer with pretty flower , and in winter with cress , grow upon feel . during the last month I see she no more at the window , but she be still alive . I know that , for I have not yet see she begin the ` long journey , ' of which she often speak with she friend . ` yes , yes , ' she be in the habit of say , ` when I come to die , I shall take a longer journey than I have make my whole life long . we family vault be six mile from here . I shall be carry there , and shall sleep there among my family and relative . ' last night a van stop at the house . a coffin be carry out , and then I know that she be dead . they place straw round the coffin , and the van drive away . there sleep the quiet old lady , who have not go out of she house once for the last year . the van roll out through the town-gate as briskly as if it be go for a pleasant excursion . on the high-road the pace be quicker yet . the coachman look nervously round every now and then -- I fancy he half expect to see she sit on the coffin , in she yellow satin wrapper . and because he be startle , he foolishly lash he horse , while he hold the rein so tightly that the poor beast be in a foam : they be young and fiery . a hare jump across the road and startle they , and they fairly run away . the old sober maiden , who have for year and year move quietly round and round in a dull circle , be now , in death , rattle over stock and stone on the public highway . the coffin in its covering of straw tumble out of the van , and be leave on the high-road , while horse , coachman , and carriage fly past in wild career . the lark rise up carolling from the field , twitter she morning lay over the coffin , and presently perch upon it , pick with she beak at the straw covering , as though she would tear it up . the lark rise up again , sing gaily , and I withdraw behind the red morning cloud . ''