the QUID pro QUO or the mistake La Fontain DAME fortune often love a laugh to raise , and , play off she trick and roguish way , instead of give we what we desire , Mere quid pro quo permit we to acquire . I have find she gambol such from first to last , and judge the future by experience past . Fair Cloris and myself feel mutual flame ; and , when a year have run , the sprightly dame prepare to grant I , if I may be plain , some slight concession that would ease my pain . this be she aim ; but whatsoe'er in view , ` ti opportunity we should pursue ; the lover , who be discreet , will moment seize ; and ev ` ry effort then will tend to please . one eve I go this charming fair to see ; the husband happen -lrb-B- luckily for I -rrb-B- to be abroad ; but just as it be night the master come , not doubt all be right ; no Cloris howsoe'er be in the way ; a servant girl , of disposition gay , well know to I , with pretty smile face , ` Tis say , be lead to take she lady 's place . the mistress ' loss for once be thus repay ; the barter mutual : -- wife against the maid . with many tale like this the book abound ; but able hand be necessary find , to place the incident , arrange the whole , that nothing may be force nor feel control . the urchin blind , who see enough to lay he num ` rous snare , such trick will often play . the CRADLE in Boccace excel the most , as to myself I do not mean to boast , but fear , a thousand place , spite of toil , by he make excellent , my labor spoil . ` tis time howe'er with preface to have do , and show , by some new turn , or piece of fun , -lrb-B- while easy number from my pencil flow , -rrb-B- of Fortune and of Love the quid pro quo . in proof , we 'll state what happen at MarseillesS : the story be so true , no doubt prevail . THERE Clidamant , whose proper name my verse , Prom high respect , refuse to rehearse , live much at ease : not one a wife have get , throughout the realm , who be so nice a lot , she virtue , temper , and seraphick charm , should have secure the husband to she arm ; but he be not to constancy inclined ; the devil 's crafty ; snare have often twine around and round , with ev ` ry subtle art , when love of novelty he would impart . the lady have a maid , whose form and size , Height , easy manners , action , lip , and eye , be think to be so very like she own , that one from t ` other scarcely could be know ; the mistress be the prettiest of the two ; but , in a mask where much escape the view , 'twa very difficult a choice to make , and feel no doubt which better ` twere to take . the marseillesian husband , rather gay , with mistress Alice be dispose to play ; -lrb-B- for such be call the maid we just have name ; -rrb-B- to show coquettish air the latter aim , and meet he wish with reproof severe ; but to he plan the lover would adhere , and promise she at length a pretty sum : a hundred crown , if to he room she would come . to pay the girl with kindness such as this , in my opinion , be not much amiss . at that rate what should be the mistress ' price ? perhaps still less : she might not be so nice . but I mistake ; the lady be so coy , no spark , whatever art he could employ , how cleverly soe'er he lay the snare , would have succeed , spite of ev ` ry care . nor present nor attention would have sway ; should I have mention present as a aid ? Alas ! no longer these be day of old ! by Love both nymph and shepherdess be sell ; he set the price of many beauty rare ; this be a god ; -- now nothing but a mayor . O ALTERED time ! o custom how depraved ! at first fair Alice frowardly behave ; but in the sequel ` gan to change she way , and say , she mistress , as the foll ` wing day , a certain remedy to take design ; that , in the morning then , if so inclined , they could at leisure in the cavern meet ; -- the plan be please : all appear discreet . the servant , have to she mistress say , what project be in view : what net be spread ; the female , ` tween themselves , a plot contrived , of quid pro quo , against the hour arrive . the husband of the trick be ne'er aware , so much the mistress have she servant 's air ; but if he have , what then ? no harm of course ; she might have lecture he with double force . next day but one , gay Clidamant , whose joy appear so great , 'twa free from all alloy , by hazard meet a friend , to whom he tell -lrb-B- most indiscreetly -rrb-B- what to he be sell ; how Cupid favor what he most require , and freely grant all he have desire . though large the blessing , yet he grudge the cost ; the sum give pain : a hundred crown be lose ! the friend propose they should at once decide , the charge and pleasure ` tween they to divide . we husband think he purse not over strong , that saving fifty crown would not be wrong . but then , on t ` other hand , to lend the fair , in ev ` ry view have get a awkward air ; would she , as be propose , consent to two ? to keep thing secret would they lip be true ? or be it fair to sacrifice she charm , and lay she open thus to dire alarm ? the friend this difficulty soon remove , and represent that the cavern prove so very dark , the girl would be deceive ; with one more shrewd the trick might be achieve . sufficient howsoever it would be , if they by turn , and silent , could agree to meet the belle , and leave to Love the rest , from whom they hope assistance if distressed . such silence to observe no hurt could do , and Alice would suppose , a prudent view retain the tongue , since wall have often ear , and , be mum , expressive be of fear . when thus the two gallant they plan have lay , and ev ` ry promised pleasure fully weigh , they to the husband 's mansion make they way , where yet the wife between the bed-clothes lay . the servant girl be near she mistress find ; she dress be plain : no finery around ; in short , 'twa such that , when the moment come ; to fail the meeting could not be she aim . the friend dispute which the lead should take , and strong pretention both appear to make ; the husband , honor home would not allow : such compliment be out of fashion now . to settle this , at length three dice they take ; the friend be highest place in Fortune 's book . the both together to the cavern fly , and for the servant soon impatient grow ; but Alice never come , and in she room the mistress , softly tread ` mid the gloom , the necessary signal gently give , on which she enter presently the cave , and this so suddenly , no time be find to make remark on change or error round , or any diff ` rence ` tween the friend and spouse ; in short , before suspicion ` gan to rouse , or alteration lend the sens aid : -- to LOVE , a sacrifice be fully make . the lucky wight more pleasure would have feel , if sensible he would be with whom he deal : the mistress rather more of beauty have , and QUALITY of course must something add . this scene just end , t ` other actor come , whose prompt