31 the Girl without Hands BrothersS Grimm A certain miller have little by little fall into poverty , and have nothing leave but he mill and a large apple-tree behind it . once when he have go into the forest to fetch wood , a old man step up to he whom he have never see before , and say , `` why dost thou plague thyself with cut wood , I will make thee rich , if thou wilt promise I what be stand behind thy mill ? '' `` what can that be but my apple-tree ? '' think the miller , and say , `` yes , '' and give a write promise to the stranger . he , however , laugh mockingly and say , `` when three year have pass , I will come and carry away what belong to I , '' and then he go . when the miller get home , he wife come to meet he and say , `` tell I , miller , from whence come this sudden wealth into we house ? all at once every box and chest be fill ; no one bring it in , and I know not how it happen . '' he answer , `` it come from a stranger who meet I in the forest , and promise I great treasure . I , in return , have promise he what stand behind the mill ; we can very well give he the big apple-tree for it . '' `` ah , husband , '' say the terrify wife , `` that must have be the devil ! he do not mean the apple-tree , but we daughter , who be stand behind the mill sweep the yard . '' the miller 's daughter be a beautiful , pious girl , and live through the three year in the fear of God and without sin . when therefore the time be over , and the day come when the evil-one be to fetch she , she wash herself clean , and make a circle round herself with chalk . the devil appear quite early , but he could not come near to she . angrily , he say to the miller , `` take all water away from she , that she may no longer be able to wash herself , for otherwise I have no power over she . '' the miller be afraid , and do so . the next morning the devil come again , but she have weep on she hand , and they be quite clean . again he could not get near she , and furiously say to the miller , `` Cut she hand off , or else I can not get the better of she . '' the miller be shock and answer , `` how could I cut off my own child 's hand ? '' then the evil-one threaten he and say , `` if thou dost not do it thou art mine , and I will take thee thyself . '' the father become alarmed , and promise to obey he . so he go to the girl and say , `` my child , if I do not cut off both thine hand , the devil will carry I away , and in my terror I have promise to do it . help I in my need , and forgive I the harm I do thee . '' she reply , `` dear father , do with I what you will , I be you child . '' Thereupon she lay down both she hand , and let they be cut off . the devil come for the third time , but she have weep so long and so much on the stump , that after all they be quite clean . then he have to give in , and have lose all right over she . the miller say to she , `` I have by means of thee receive such great wealth that I will keep thee most delicately as long as thou livest . '' but she reply , `` here I can not stay , I will go forth , compassionate people will give I as much as I require . '' Thereupon she cause she maim arm to be bind to she back , and by sunrise she set out on she way , and walk the whole day until night fall . then she come to a royal garden , and by the shimmering of the moon she see that tree cover with beautiful fruit grow in it , but she could not enter , for there be much water round about it . and as she have walk the whole day and not eat one mouthful , and hunger torment she , she think , `` ah , if I be but inside , that I might eat of the fruit , else must I die of hunger ! '' then she kneel down , call on God the Lord , and pray . and suddenly a angel come towards she , who make a dam in the water , so that the moat become dry and she could walk through it . and now she go into the garden and the angel go with she . she see a tree cover with beautiful pear , but they be all count . then she go to they , and to still she hunger , eat one with she mouth from the tree , but no more . the gardener be watch ; but as the angel be stand by , he be afraid and think the maiden be a spirit , and be silent , neither do he dare to cry out , or to speak to the spirit . when she have eat the pear , she be satisfy , and go and conceal herself among the bush . the King to whom the garden belong , come down to it next morning , and count , and see that one of the pear be miss , and ask the gardener what have become of it , as it be not lie beneath the tree , but be go . then answer the gardener , `` last night , a spirit come in , who have no hand , and eat off one of the pear with its mouth . '' the King say , `` how do the spirit get over the water , and where do it go after it have eat the pear ? '' the gardener answer , `` some one come in a snow-white garment from heaven who make a dam , and keep back the water , that the spirit might walk through the moat . and as it must have be a angel , I be afraid , and ask no question , and do not cry out . when the spirit have eat the pear , it go back again . '' the King say , `` if it be as thou sayest , I will watch with thee to-night . '' when it grow dark the King come into the garden and bring a priest with he , who be to speak to the spirit . all three seat themselves beneath the tree and watch . at midnight the maiden come creep out of the thicket , go to the tree , and again eat one pear off it with she mouth , and beside she stand the angel in white garment . then the priest go out to they and say , `` comest thou from heaven or from earth ? Art thou a spirit , or a human being ? '' she reply , `` I be no spirit , but a unhappy mortal desert by all but God . '' the King say , `` if thou art forsake by all the world , yet will I not forsake thee . '' he take she with he into he royal palace , and as she be so beautiful and good , he love she with all he heart , have silver hand make for she , and take she to wife . after a year the King have to take the field , so he commend he young Queen to the care of he mother and say , `` if she be bring to bed take care of she , nurse she well , and tell I of it at once in a letter . '' then she give birth to a fine boy . so the old mother make haste to write and announce the joyful news to he . but the messenger rest by a brook on the way , and as he be fatigue by the great distance , he fall asleep . then come the Devil , who be always seek to injure the good Queen , and exchange the letter for another , in which be write that the Queen have bring a monster into the world . when the King read the letter he be shock and much trouble , but he write in answer that they be to take great care of the Queen and nurse she well until he arrival . the messenger go back with the letter , but rest at the same place and again fall asleep . then come the Devil once more , and put a different letter in he pocket , in which it be write that they be to put the Queen and she child to death . the old mother be terribly shock when she receive the letter , and could not believe it . she write back again to the King , but receive no other answer , because each time the Devil substitute a false letter , and in the last letter it be also write that she be to preserve the Queen 's tongue and eye as a token that she have obey . but the old mother weep to think such innocent blood be to be shed , and have a hind bring by night and cut out she tongue and eye , and keep they . then say she to the Queen , `` I can not have thee kill as the King command , but here thou mayst stay no longer . go forth into the wide world with thy child , and never come here again . '' the poor woman tie she child on she back , and go away with eye full of tear . she come into a great wild forest , and then she fall on she knee and pray to God , and the angel of the Lord appear to she and lead she to a little house on which be a sign with the word , `` here all dwell free . '' a snow-white maiden come out of the little house and say , `` welcome , Lady Queen , '' and conduct she inside . then they unbind the little boy from she back , and hold he to she breast that he might feed , and lay he in a beautifully-made little bed . then say the poor woman , `` from whence knowest thou that I be a queen ? '' the white maiden answer , `` I be a angel send by God , to watch over thee and thy child . '' the Queen stay seven year in the little house , and be well care for , and by God 's grace , because of she piety , she hand which have be cut off , grow once more . at last the King come home again from the war , and he first wish be to see he wife and the child . then he age mother begin to weep and say , `` Thou wicked man , why didst thou write to I that I be to take those two innocent life ? '' and she show he the two letter which the evil-one have forge , and then continue , `` I do as thou badest I , '' and she show the token , the tongue and eye . then the King begin to weep for he poor wife and he little son so much more bitterly than she be do , that the age mother have compassion on he and say , `` be at peace , she still live ; I secretly cause a hind to be kill , and take these token from it ; but I bind the child to thy wife 's back and bid she go forth into the wide world , and make she promise never to come back here again , because thou wert so angry with she . '' then speak the King , `` I will go as far as the sky be blue , and will neither eat nor drink until I have find again my dear wife and my child , if in the meantime they have not be kill , or die of hunger . '' Thereupon the King travel about for seven long year , and seek she in every cleft of the rock and in every cave , but he find she not , and think she have die of want . during the whole of this time he neither eat nor drank , but God support he . at length he come into a great forest , and find therein the little house whose sign be , `` here all dwell free . '' then forth come the white maiden , take he by the hand , lead he in , and say , `` welcome , Lord King , '' and ask he from whence he come . he answer , `` soon shall I have travel about for the space of seven year , and I seek my wife and she child , but can not find they . '' the angel offer he meat and drink , but he do not take anything , and only wish to rest a little . then he lay down to sleep , and put a handkerchief over he face . Thereupon the angel go into the chamber where the Queen sit with she son , whom she usually call `` sorrowful , '' and say to she , `` go out with thy child , thy husband hath come . '' so she go to the place where he lay , and the handkerchief fall from he face . then say she , `` sorrowful , pick up thy father 's handkerchief , and cover he face again . '' the child pick it up , and put it over he face again . the King in he sleep hear what pass , and have pleasure in let the handkerchief fall once more . but the child grow impatient , and say , `` dear mother , how can I cover my father 's face when I have no father in this world ? I have learn to say the prayer , ` we Father , which art in Heaven , ' thou hast tell I that my father be in Heaven , and be the good God , and how can I know a wild man like this ? he be not my father . '' when the King hear that , he get up , and ask who they be . then say she , `` I be thy wife , and that be thy son , Sorrowful . '' and he see she living hand , and say , `` my wife have silver hand . '' she answer , `` the good God have cause my natural hand to grow again ; '' and the angel go into the inner room , and bring the silver hand , and show they to he . Hereupon he know for a certainty that it be he dear wife and he dear child , and he kiss they , and be glad , and say , `` a heavy stone have fall from off mine heart . '' then the angel of God give they one meal with she , and after that they go home to the King 's age mother . there be great rejoicing everywhere , and the King and Queen be marry again , and live contentedly to they happy end .