the river SCAMANDER La Fontain I be now dispose to give a pretty tale ; Love laugh at what I have swear and will prevail ; man , god , and all , he mighty influence know , and full obedience to the urchin show . in future when I celebrate he flame , expression not so warm will be my aim ; I would not willingly abuse plant , but rather let my writings spirit want . if in these verse I around should twirl , some wily knave and easy simple girl , ` ti with intention in the breast to place ; on such occasion , dread of dire disgrace ; the mind to open , and the sex to set upon they guard ` gainst snare so often meet . Gross ignorance a thousand have mislead , for one that have be hurt by what I have say . I have read that once , a orator renown in Greece , where art superior then be find , by law 's severe decree , compel to quit he country , and to banishment submit , resolve that he a season would employ , in visit the site of ancient Troy . he comrade , Cymon , with he thither go , to view those ruin , we so oft lament . a hamlet have be raise from Ilion 's wall , ennoble by misfortune and its fall ; where now mere name be Priam and he court ; of all devour time the prey and sport . O TROY ! for I thy very name have get Superior charm : -- in story fruitful spot ; Thy famed remains I ne'er can hope to view , that god by labor raise , and god o ` erthrew ; those field where daring act of valor shone ; so many fight be lose : -- so many won . BUT to resume my thread , and not extend too much the subject which we plan suspend ; this Cymon , who be the hero of we tale , when walking near the bank that form the dale through which Scamander 's water freely flow , observe a youthful charmer thither go , to breathe the cool refreshing breeze around ; that on its verdant border oft she would find . she veil be float , and she artless dress , a shepherdess seem clearly to express . Tall , elegantly form , with beauteous mien , and ev ` ry feature lovely to be see , Young Cymon feel emotion and surprise , and think 'twa Venus that have catch he eye , who on the river 's side she charm display , those wondrous treasure all perfection make . a GROT be nigh , to which the simple fair , not dream ill , be anxious to repair ; the heat , some evil spirit , and the place , invite she the moment to embrace , to bathe within the stream that near she run ; and instantly she project she begin . the spark conceal himself ; each charm admire ; now this , now that , now t ` other feature fire ; a hundred beauty catch he eager sight ; and while he bosom feel supreme delight , he turn he thought advantage to take , and of the maiden 's error something make ; assume the character , and dress ; and air ; that should a wat ` ry deity declare ; within the glide flood he vestment dipt : a crown of rush on he head he slipt ; Aquatick herb and plant around he twine : then Mercury intreat to be kind , and Cupid too , the wily god of heart ; how could the innocent resist these art ? AT length a foot so fair the belle expose , E ` en Galatea never such disclose ; the stream , that glide by , receive the prize ; she lily she behold with downcast eye , and , half ashamed , herself survey at ease , while round the zephyr wanton in the breeze . when thus engage , the lover near she draw ; at whose approach away the damsel fly , and try to hide within the rocky cell ; Cried Cymon , I beneath these water dwell , and o ` er they course a sov ` reign right maintain ; be goddess of the flood , and with I reign ; few river could with you like pow ` r divide ; my crystal 's clear : in I you may confide ; my heart be pure ; with flow ` r I 'll deck the stream , if worthy of yourself the flood you deem ; too happy should this honor you bestow , and with I , ` neath the current , freely go . you fair companion , ev ` ry one I 'll make a nymph of fountain , hill , or grove , or lake ; my pow ` r be great , extend far around Where'er the eye can reach , ` tis fully find . the eloquence he use , she fear and dread ; lest she might give offence by what she say , in spite of bashfulness that bliss alloy , soon all conclude with celestial joy . ` tis even say that Cupid lend supplies ; from superstition many thing arise . the spark withdraw , delight by success ; return say he : -- we 'll mutually caress ; but secret prove : let none we union learn ; Concealment be to I of high concern ; to make it publick would improper be , till on Olympus ' mount the god we see , in council meet , to whom I 'll state the case ; on this the new-made goddess leave the place , in ev ` ry thing contented as a dive , and fully witness by the god of love . two month have pass , and not a person know they frequent meeting , pleasure to pursue . O mortal ! be it true , as we be tell , that ev ` ry bliss at last be render cold ? the sly gallant , though not a word he say , the grot to visit now be rarely lead . AT length a wedding much attention catch ; the lad and lass of the hamlet seek , to see the couple pass : the belle perceive the very man for whom she bosom heave , and loudly cried , behold Scamander 's flood ! which raise surprise ; soon number round she stand , astonishment express , but still the fair , Whate'er be ask , would nothing more declare , than , in the spacious , blue , ethereal sky , she marriage would be soon , they might rely . a laugh prevail ; for what be to be do ? the god with hasty step away have run , and none with stone pursue he rapid flight : the deity be quickly ought of sight . be this to happen now , Scamander 's stream would not so easily preserve esteem ; but crime like these -lrb-B- whoever be abuse -rrb-B- , in former day , be easily excuse . with time we maxim change , and what be then , though wrong at present , may prevail agen . Scamander 's spouse some raillery receive ; but in the end she fully be relieve : a lover e ` en superior think she charm , -lrb-B- he taste be such -rrb-B- and take she to he arm . the god can nothing spoil ! but should they cause a belle to lose a portion of applause , a handsome fortune give , and you 'll behold , that ev ` ry thing can be repair by gold .