111 the Skilful Huntsman BrothersS Grimm THERE be once a young fellow who have learn the trade of locksmith , and tell he father he would now go out into the world and seek he fortune . `` very well , '' say the father , `` I be quite content with that , '' and give he some money for he journey . so he travel about and look for work . after a time he resolve not to follow the trade of locksmith any more , for he no longer like it , but he take a fancy for hunting . then there meet he in he ramble a huntsman dress in green , who ask whence he come and whither he be go ? the youth say he be a locksmith 's apprentice , but that the trade no longer pleased he , and he have a liking for huntsmanship , would he teach it to he ? `` oh , yes , '' say the huntsman , `` if thou wilt go with I . '' then the young fellow go with he , bind himself to he for some year , and learn the art of hunting . after this he wish to try he luck elsewhere , and the huntsman give he nothing in the way of payment but a air-gun , which have , however , this property , that it hit its mark without fail whenever he shoot with it . then he set out and find himself in a very large forest , which he could not get to the end of in one day . when evening come he seat himself in a high tree in order to escape from the wild beast . towards midnight , it seem to he as if a tiny little light glimmer in the distance . then he look down through the branch towards it , and keep well in he mind where it be . but in the first place he take off he hat and throw it down in the direction of the light , so that he might go to the hat as a mark when he have descend . then he get down and go to he hat , put it on again and go straight forwards . the farther he go , the larger the light grow , and when he get close to it he see that it be a enormous fire , and that three giant be sit by it , who have a ox on the spit , and be roast it . presently one of they say , `` I must just taste if the meat will soon be fit to eat , '' and pull a piece off , and be about to put it in he mouth when the huntsman shoot it out of he hand . `` well , really , '' say the giant , `` if the wind have not blow the bit out of my hand ! '' and help himself to another . but when he be just about to bite into it , the huntsman again shoot it away from he . on this the giant give the one who be sit next he a box on the ear , and cry angrily , `` why art thou snatch my piece away from I ? '' `` I have not snatch it away , '' say the other , `` a sharpshooter must have shoot it away from thee . '' the giant take another piece , but could not , however , keep it in he hand , for the huntsman shoot it out . then the giant say , `` that must be a good shot to shoot the bit out of one 's very mouth , such a one would be useful to we . '' and he cry aloud , `` come here , thou sharpshooter , seat thyself at the fire beside we and eat thy fill , we will not hurt thee ; but if thou wilt not come , and we have to bring thee by force , thou art a lost man ! '' on this the youth go up to they and tell they he be a skilled huntsman , and that whatever he aim at with he gun , he be certain to hit . then they say if he would go with they he should be well treat , and they tell he that outside the forest there be a great lake , behind which stand a tower , and in the tower be imprison a lovely princess , whom they wish very much to carry off . `` yes , '' say he , `` I will soon get she for you . '' then they add , `` but there be still something else , there be a tiny little dog , which begin to bark directly any one go near , and as soon as it bark every one in the royal palace waken up , and for this reason we can not get there ; canst thou undertake to shoot it dead ? '' `` yes , '' say he , `` that will be a little bit of fun for I . '' after this he get into a boat and row over the lake , and as soon as he land , the little dog come run out , and be about to bark , but the huntsman take he air-gun and shoot it dead . when the giant see that , they rejoice , and think they already have the King 's daughter safe , but the huntsman wish first to see how matter stand , and tell they that they must stay outside until he call they . then he go into the castle , and all be perfectly quiet within , and every one be asleep . when he open the door of the first room , a sword be hang on the wall which be make of pure silver , and there be a golden star on it , and the name of the King , and on a table near it lay a sealed letter which he break open , and inside it be write that whosoever have the sword could kill everything which oppose he . so he take the sword from the wall , hang it at he side and go onward : then he enter the room where the King 's daughter be lie sleeping , and she be so beautiful that he stand still and , hold he breath , look at she . he think to himself , `` how can I give a innocent maiden into the power of the wild giant , who have evil in they mind ? '' he look about further , and under the bed stand a pair of slipper , on the right one be she father 's name with a star , and on the leave she own name with a star . she wear also a great neck-kerchief of silk embroider with gold , and on the right side be she father 's name , and on the leave she own , all in golden letter . then the huntsman take a pair of scissors and cut the right corner off , and put it in he knapsack , and then he also take the right slipper with the King 's name , and thrust that in . now the maiden still lay sleeping , and she be quite sewn into she night-dress , and he cut a morsel from this also , and thrust it in with the rest , but he do all without touch she . then he go forth and leave she lie asleep undisturbed , and when he come to the gate again , the giant be still stand outside wait for he , and expect that he be bring the princess . but he cry to they that they be to come in , for the maiden be already in they power , that he could not open the gate to they , but there be a hole through which they must creep . then the first approach , and the huntsman wind the giant 's hair round he hand , pull the head in , and cut it off at one stroke with he sword , and then draw the rest of he in . he call to the second and cut he head off likewise , and then he kill the third also , and he be well pleased that he have free the beautiful maiden from she enemy , and he cut out they tongue and put they in he knapsack . then think he , `` I will go home to my father and let he see what I have already do , and afterwards I will travel about the world ; the luck which God be pleased to grant I will easily find I . '' but when the King in the castle awake , he see the three giant lie there dead . so he go into the sleeping-room of he daughter , awake she , and ask who could have kill the giant ? then say she , `` dear father , I know not , I have be asleep . '' but when she arise and would have put on she slipper , the right one be go , and when she look at she neck-kerchief it be cut , and the right corner be miss , and when she look at she night-dress a piece be cut out of it . the King summon he whole court together , soldier and every one else who be there , and ask who have set he daughter at liberty , and kill the giant ? now it happen that he have a captain , who be one-eyed and a hideous man , and he say that he have do it . then the old King say that as he have accomplish this , he should marry he daughter . but the maiden say , `` rather than marry he , dear father , I will go away into the world as far as my leg can carry I . '' but the King say that if she would not marry he she should take off she royal garment and wear peasant 's clothing , and go forth , and that she should go to a potter , and begin a trade in earthen vessel . so she put off she royal apparel , and go to a potter and borrow crockery enough for a stall , and she promise he also that if she have sell it by the evening , she would pay for it . then the King say she be to seat herself in a corner with it and sell it , and he arrange with some peasant to drive over it with they cart , so that everything should be break into a thousand piece . when therefore the King 's daughter have place she stall in the street , by come the cart , and break all she have into tiny fragment . she begin to weep and say , `` Alas , how shall I ever pay for the pot now ? '' the King have , however , wish by this to force she to marry the captain ; but instead of that , she again go to the potter , and ask he if he would lend to she once more . he say , `` no , '' she must first pay for the thing she have already have . then she go to she father and cry and lament , and say she would go forth into the world . then say he , `` I will have a little hut build for thee in the forest outside , and in it thou shalt stay all thy life long and cook for every one , but thou shalt take no money for it . '' when the hut be ready , a sign be hang on the door whereon be write , `` to-day give , to-morrow sell . '' there she remain a long time , and it be rumor about the world that a maiden be there who cook without ask for payment , and that this be set forth on a sign outside she door . the huntsman hear it likewise , and think to himself , `` that would suit thee . Thou art poor , and hast no money . '' so he take he air-gun and he knapsack , wherein all the thing which he have formerly carry away with he from the castle as token of he truthfulness be still lie , and go into the forest , and find the hut with the sign , `` to-day give , to-morrow sell . '' he have put on the sword with which he have cut off the head of the three giant , and thus enter the hut , and order something to eat to be give to he . he be charm with the beautiful maiden , who be indeed as lovely as any picture . she ask he whence he come and whither he be go , and he say , `` I be roam about the world . '' then she ask he where he have get the sword , for that truly she father 's name be on it . he ask she if she be the King 's daughter . `` yes , '' answer she . `` with this sword , '' say he , `` do I cut off the head of three giant . '' and he take they tongue out of he knapsack in proof . then he also show she the slipper , and the corner of the neck-kerchief , and the bit of the night-dress . Hereupon she be overjoy , and say that he be the one who have deliver she . on this they go together to the old King , and fetch he to the hut , and she lead he into she room , and tell he that the huntsman be the man who have really set she free from the giant . and when the age King see all the proof of this , he could no longer doubt , and say that he be very glad he know how everything have happen , and that the huntsman should have she to wife , on which the maiden be glad at heart . then she dress the huntsman as if he be a foreign lord , and the King order a feast to be prepare . when they go to table , the captain sit on the left side of the King 's daughter , but the huntsman be on the right , and the captain think he be a foreign lord who have come on a visit . when they have eat and drunk , the old King say to the captain that he would set before he something which he must guess . `` suppose any one say that he have kill the three giant and he be ask where the giant ' tongue be , and he be force to go and look , and there be none in they head , how could that happen ? '' the captain say , `` then they can not have have any . '' `` not so , '' say the King . `` every animal have a tongue , '' and then he likewise ask what any one would deserve who make such a answer ? the captain reply , `` he ought to be tear in piece . '' then the King say he have pronounce he own sentence , and the captain be put in prison and then tear in four piece ; but the King 's daughter be marry to the huntsman . after this he bring he father and mother , and they live with they son in happiness , and after the death of the old king he receive the kingdom .