182 the little folk ' PresentsS BrothersS Grimm A tailor and a goldsmith be travel together , and one evening when the sun have sink behind the mountain , they hear the sound of distant music , which become more and more distinct . it sound strange , but so pleasant that they forget all they weariness and step quickly onwards . the moon have already arise when they reach a hill on which they see a crowd of little man and woman , who have take each other 's hand , and be whirling round in the dance with the greatest pleasure and delight . they sing to it most charmingly , and that be the music which the traveller have hear . in the midst of they sit a old man who be rather taller than the rest . he wear a parti-coloured coat , and he iron-grey beard hang down over he breast . the two remain standing full of astonishment , and watch the dance . the old man make a sign that they should enter , and the little folk willingly open they circle . the goldsmith , who have a hump , and like all hunchback be brave enough , step in ; the tailor feel a little afraid at first , and hold back , but when he see how merrily all be go , he pluck up he courage , and follow . the circle close again directly , and the little folk go on singing and dancing with the wildest leap . the old man , however , take a large knife which hang to he girdle , whet it , and when it be sufficiently sharpen , he look round at the stranger . they be terrify , but they have not much time for reflection , for the old man seize the goldsmith and with the greatest speed , shave the hair of he head clean off , and then the same thing happen to the tailor . but they fear leave they when , after he have finish he work , the old man clap they both on the shoulder in a friendly manner , as much as to say , they have behave well to let all that be do to they willingly , and without any struggle . he point with he finger to a heap of coal which lay at one side , and signify to the traveller by he gesture that they be to fill they pocket with they . both of they obey , although they do not know of what use the coal would be to they , and then they go on they way to seek a shelter for the night . when they have get into the valley , the clock of the neighbouring monastery strike twelve , and the song cease . in a moment all have vanish , and the hill lay in solitude in the moonlight . the two traveller find a inn , and cover themselves up on they straw-beds with they coat , but in they weariness forget to take the coal out of they before do so . a heavy weight on they limb awaken they earlier than usual . they feel in the pocket , and could not believe they eye when they see that they be not fill with coal , but with pure gold ; happily , too , the hair of they head and beard be there again as thick as ever . they have now become rich folk , but the goldsmith , who , in accordance with he greedy disposition , have fill he pocket better , be as rich again as the tailor . a greedy man , even if he have much , still wish to have more , so the goldsmith propose to the tailor that they should wait another day , and go out again in the evening in order to bring back still greater treasure from the old man on the hill . the tailor refuse , and say , `` I have enough and be content ; now I shall be a master , and marry my dear object -lrb-B- for so he call he sweetheart -rrb-B- , and I be a happy man . '' but he stay another day to please he . in the evening the goldsmith hang a couple of bag over he shoulder that he might be able to stow away a great deal , and take the road to the hill . he find , as on the night before , the little folk at they singing and dancing , and the old man again shave he clean , and sign to he to take some coal away with he . he be not slow about stick as much into he bag as would go , go back quite delighted , and cover himself over with he coat . `` even if the gold do weigh heavily , '' say he , `` I will gladly bear that , '' and at last he fall asleep with the sweet anticipation of wake in the morning a enormously rich man . when he open he eye , he get up in haste to examine he pocket , but how amaze he be when he draw nothing out of they but black coal , and that howsoever often he put he hand in they . `` the gold I get the night before be still there for I , '' think he , and go and bring it out , but how shocked he be when he see that it likewise have again turn into coal . he smite he forehead with he dusty black hand , and then he feel that he whole head be bald and smooth , as be also the place where he beard should have be . but he misfortune be not yet over ; he now remark for the first time that in addition to the hump on he back , a second , just as large , have grow in front on he breast . then he recognize the punishment of he greediness , and begin to weep aloud . the good tailor , who be waken by this , comfort the unhappy fellow as well as he could , and say , `` Thou hast be my comrade in my travel time ; thou shalt stay with I and share in my wealth . '' he keep he word , but the poor goldsmith be oblige to carry the two hump as long as he live , and to cover he bald head with a cap .