54 the Knapsack , the Hat , and the Horn BrothersS Grimm there be once three brother who have fall deeper and deeper into poverty , and at last they need be so great that they have to endure hunger , and have nothing to eat or drink . then say they , `` we can not go on thus , we have better go into the world and seek we fortune . '' they therefore set out , and have already walk over many a long road and many a blade of grass , but have not yet meet with good luck . one day they arrive in a great forest , and in the midst of it be a hill , and when they come nearer they see that the hill be all silver . then speak the eldest , `` now I have find the good luck I wish for , and I desire nothing more . '' he take as much of the silver as he could possibly carry , and then turn back and go home again . but the two other say , `` we want something more from good luck than mere silver , '' and do not touch it , but go onward . after they have walk for two day longer without stop , they come to a hill which be all gold . the second brother stop , take thought with himself , and be undecided . `` what shall I do ? '' say he ; `` shall I take for myself so much of this gold , that I have sufficient for all the rest of my life , or shall I go farther ? '' at length he make a decision , and put as much into he pocket as would go in , say farewell to he brother , and go home . but the third say , `` silver and gold do not move I , I will not renounce my chance of fortune , perhaps something better still will be give I . '' he journey onward , and when he have walk for three day , he get into a forest which be still larger than the one before , and never would come to a end , and as he find nothing to eat or to drink , he be all but exhaust . then he climb up a high tree to find out if up there he could see the end of the forest , but so far as he eye could pierce he see nothing but the top of tree . then he begin to descend the tree again , but hunger torment he , and he think to himself , `` if I could but eat my fill once more ! '' when he get down he see with astonishment a table beneath the tree richly spread with food , the steam of which rise up to meet he . `` this time , '' say he , `` my wish have be fulfil at the right moment . '' and without inquire who have bring the food , or who have cook it , he approach the table , and eat with enjoyment until he have appease he hunger . when he be do , he think , `` it would after all be a pity if the pretty little table-cloth be to be spoil in the forest here , '' and fold it up tidily and put it in he pocket . then he go onward , and in the evening , when hunger once more make itself feel , he want to make a trial of he little cloth , and spread it out and say , `` I wish thee to be cover with good cheer again , '' and scarcely have the wish cross he lip than as many dish with the most exquisite food on they stand on the table as there be room for . `` now I perceive , '' say he , `` in what kitchen my cooking be do . Thou shalt be dearer to I than the mountain of silver and gold . '' for he see plainly that it be a wishing-cloth . the cloth , however , be still not enough to enable he to sit down quietly at home ; he prefer to wander about the world and pursue he fortune farther . one night he meet , in a lonely wood , a dusty , black charcoal-burner , who be burn charcoal there , and have some potato by the fire , on which he be go to make a meal . `` good evening , blackbird ! '' say the youth . `` how dost thou get on in thy solitude ? '' `` one day be like another , '' reply the charcoal-burner , `` and every night potato ! Hast thou a mind to have some , and wilt thou be my guest ? '' `` many thanks , '' reply the traveler , `` I will not rob thee of thy supper ; thou didst not reckon on a visitor , but if thou wilt put up with what I have , thou shalt have a invitation . '' `` who be to prepare it for thee ? '' say the charcoal-burner . `` I see that thou hast nothing with thee , and there be no one within a two hour ' walk who could give thee anything . '' `` and yet there shall be a meal , '' answer the youth , `` and better than any thou hast ever taste . '' Thereupon he bring he cloth out of he knapsack , spread it on the ground , and say , `` little cloth , cover thyself , '' and instantly boil meat and baked meat stand there , and as hot as if it have just come out of the kitchen . the charcoal-burner stare , but do not require much press ; he fall to , and thrust larger and larger mouthful into he black mouth . when they have eat everything , the charcoal-burner smile contentedly , and say , `` Hark thee , thy table-cloth have my approval ; it would be a fine thing for I in this forest , where no one ever cook I anything good . I will propose a exchange to thee ; there in the corner hang a soldier 's knapsack , which be certainly old and shabby , but in it lie conceal wonderful power ; but , as I no longer use it , I will give it to thee for the table-cloth . '' `` I must first know what these wonderful power be , '' answer the youth . `` that will I tell thee , '' reply the charcoal-burner ; `` every time thou tappest it with thy hand , a corporal come with six man arm from head to foot , and they do whatsoever thou commandest they . '' `` so far as I be concern , '' say the youth , `` if nothing else can be do , we will exchange , '' and he give the charcoal-burner the cloth , take the knapsack from the hook , put it on , and bade farewell . when he have walk a while , he wish to make a trial of the magical power of he knapsack and tap it . immediately the seven warrior step up to he , and the corporal say , `` what do my lord and ruler wish for ? '' `` March with all speed to the charcoal-burner , and demand my wishing-cloth back . '' they face to the left , and it be not long before they bring what he require , and have take it from the charcoal-burner without ask many question . the young man bid they retire , go onward , and hope fortune would shine yet more brightly on he . by sunset he come to another charcoal-burner , who be make he supper ready by the fire . `` if thou wilt eat some potato with salt , but with no drip , come and sit down with I , '' say the sooty fellow . `` no , he reply , this time thou shalt be my guest , '' and he spread out he cloth , which be instantly cover with the most beautiful dish . they eat and drink together , and enjoy themselves heartily . after the meal be over , the charcoal-burner say , `` up there on that shelf lie a little old worn-out hat which have strange property : when any one put it on , and turn it round on he head , the cannon go off as if twelve be fire all together , and they shoot down everything so that no one can withstand they . the hat be of no use to I , and I will willingly give it for thy table-cloth . '' `` that suit I very well , '' he answer , take the hat , put it on , and leave he table-cloth behind he . hardly , however , have he walk away than he tap on he knapsack , and he soldier have to fetch the cloth back again . `` one thing come on the top of another , '' think he , `` and I feel as if my luck have not yet come to a end . '' neither have he thought deceive he . after he have walk on for the whole of one day , he come to a third charcoal-burner , who like the previous one , invite he to potato without drip . but he let he also dine with he from he wishing-cloth , and the charcoal-burner like it so well , that at last he offer he a horn for it , which have very different property from those of the hat . when any one blow it all the wall and fortification fall down , and all town and village become ruin . he certainly give the charcoal-burner the cloth for it , but he afterwards send he soldier to demand it back again , so that at length he have the knapsack , hat and horn , all three . `` now , '' say he , `` I be a make man , and it be time for I to go home and see how my brother be get on . '' when he reach home , he brother have build themselves a handsome house with they silver and gold , and be live in clover . he go to see they , but as he come in a ragged coat , with he shabby hat on he head , and he old knapsack on he back , they would not acknowledge he as they brother . they mock and say , `` Thou givest out that thou art we brother who despise silver and gold , and crave for something still better for himself . he will come in he carriage in full splendor like a mighty king , not like a beggar , '' and they drive he out of door . then he fall into a rage , and tap he knapsack until a hundred and fifty man stand before he arm from head to foot . he command they to surround he brother ' house , and two of they be to take hazel-sticks with they , and beat the two insolent man until they know who he be . a violent disturbance arise , people run together , and want to lend the two some help in they need , but against the soldier they could do nothing . News of this at length come to the King , who be very angry , and order a captain to march out with he troop , and drive this disturber of the peace out of the town ; but the man with the knapsack soon get a greater body of man together , who repulse the captain and he man , so that they be force to retire with bloody nose . the King say , `` this vagabond be not bring to order yet , '' and next day send a still larger troop against he , but they could do even less . the youth set still more man against they , and in order to be do the sooner , he turn he hat twice round on he head , and heavy gun begin to play , and the king 's man be beat and put to flight . `` and now , '' say he , `` I will not make peace until the King give I he daughter to wife , and I govern the whole kingdom in he name . '' he cause this to be announce to the King , and the latter say to he daughter , `` necessity be a hard nut to crack , what remain to I but to do what he desire ? if I want peace and to keep the crown on my head , I must give thee away . '' so the wedding be celebrate , but the King 's daughter be vex that she husband should be a common man , who wear a shabby hat , and put on a old knapsack . she wish much to get rid of he , and night and day study how she could accomplish this . then she think to herself , `` be it possible that he wonderful power lie in the knapsack ? '' and she dissemble and caress he , and when he heart be soften , she say , `` if thou wouldst but lay aside that ugly knapsack , it make disfigure thee so , that I can not help be ashamed of thee . '' `` dear child , '' say he , `` this knapsack be my greatest treasure ; as long as I have it , there be no power on earth that I be afraid of . '' and he reveal to she the wonderful virtue with which it be endow . then she throw herself in he arm as if she be go to kiss he , but dexterously take the knapsack off he shoulder , and run away with it . as soon as she be alone she tap it , and command the warrior to seize they former master , and take he out of the royal palace . they obey , and the false wife send still more man after he , who be to drive he quite out of the country . then he would have be ruin if he have not have the little hat . but he hand be scarcely at liberty before he turn it twice . immediately the cannon begin to thunder , and strike down everything , and the King 's daughter herself be force to come and beg for mercy . as she entreat in such move term , and promise amendment , he allow himself to be persuade and grant she peace . she behave in a friendly manner to he , and act as if she love he very much , and after some time manage so to befool he , that he confide to she that even if someone get the knapsack into he power , he could do nothing against he so long as the old hat be still he . when she know the secret , she wait until he be asleep , and then she take the hat away from he , and have it throw out into the street . but the horn still remain to he , and in great anger he blow it with all he strength . instantly all wall , fortification , town , and village , topple down , and crush the King and he daughter to death . and have he not put down the horn and have blow just a little longer , everything would have be in ruin , and not one stone would have be leave stand on another . then no one oppose he any longer , and he make himself King of the whole country .