141 the Lambkin and the little fish Brothers Grimm THERE be once a little brother and a little sister , who love each other with all they heart . they own mother be , however , dead , and they have a step-mother , who be not kind to they , and secretly do everything she could to hurt they . it so happen that the two be play with other child in a meadow before the house , and there be a pond in the meadow which come up to one side of the house . the child run about it , and catch each other , and play at count out . `` Eneke Beneke , let I live , and I to thee my bird will give . the little bird , it straw shall seek , the straw I 'll give to the cow to eat . the pretty cow shall give I milk , the milk I 'll to the baker take . the baker he shall bake a cake , the cake I 'll give unto the cat . the cat shall catch some mouse for that , the mouse I 'll hang up in the smoke , and then you 'll see the snow . '' they stand in a circle while they play this , and the one to whom the word snow fall , have to run away and all the other run after he and catch he . as they be run about so merrily the step-mother watch they from the window , and grow angry . and as she understand art of witchcraft she bewitch they both , and change the little brother into a fish , and the little sister into a lamb . then the fish swam here and there about the pond and be very sad , and the lambkin walk up and down the meadow , and be miserable , and could not eat or touch one blade of grass . thus pass a long time , and then stranger come as visitor to the castle . the false step-mother thought , `` this be a good opportunity , '' and call the cook and say to he , `` go and fetch the lamb from the meadow and kill it , we have nothing else for the visitor . '' then the cook go away and get the lamb , and take it into the kitchen and tie its foot , and all this it bear patiently . when he have draw out he knife and be whet it on the door-step to kill the lamb , he notice a little fish swimming backwards and forwards in the water , in front of the kitchen-sink and look up at he . this , however , be the brother , for when the fish see the cook take the lamb away , it follow they and swim along the pond to the house ; then the lamb cry down to it , `` ah , brother , in the pond so deep , how sad be my poor heart ! even now the cook he whet he knife to take away my tender life . '' the little fish answer , `` ah , little sister , up on high how sad be my poor heart while in this pond I lie . '' when the cook hear that the lambkin could speak and say such sad word to the fish down below , he be terrify and think this could be no common lamb , but must be bewitch by the wicked woman in the house . then say he , `` be easy , I will not kill thee , '' and take another sheep and make it ready for the guest , and convey the lambkin to a good peasant woman , to whom he relate all that he have see and hear . the peasant be , however , the very woman who have be foster-mother to the little sister , and she suspect at once who the lamb be , and go with it to a wise woman . then the wise woman pronounce a blessing over the lambkin and the little fish , by means of which they regain they human form , and after this she take they both into a little hut in a great forest , where they live alone , but be contented and happy .