13 the three little man in the Wood BrothersS Grimm there be once a man whose wife die , and a woman whose husband die , and the man have a daughter , and the woman also have a daughter . the girl be acquaint with each other , and go out walk together , and afterwards come to the woman in she house . then say she to the man 's daughter , `` listen , tell thy father that I would like to marry he , and then thou shalt wash thyself in milk every morning , and drink wine , but my own daughter shall wash herself in water and drink water . '' the girl go home , and tell she father what the woman have say . the man say , `` what shall I do ? marriage be a joy and also a torment . '' at length as he could come to no decision , he pull off he boot , and say , `` take this boot , it have a hole in the sole of it . go with it up to the loft , hang it on the big nail , and then pour water into it . if it hold the water , then I will again take a wife , but if it run through , I will not . '' the girl do as she be order , but the water draw the hole together , and the boot become full to the top . she inform she father how it have turn out . then he himself go up , and when he see that she be right , he go to the widow and woo she , and the wedding be celebrate . the next morning , when the two girl get up , there stand before the man 's daughter milk for she to wash in and wine for she to drink , but before the woman 's daughter stand water to wash herself with and water for drinking . on the second morning , stand water for wash and water for drinking before the man 's daughter as well as before the woman 's daughter . and on the third morning stand water for wash and water for drinking before the man 's daughter , and milk for wash and wine for drinking , before the woman 's daughter , and so it continue . the woman become bitterly unkind to she step-daughter , and day by day do she best to treat she still worse . she be also envious because she step-daughter be beautiful and lovable , and she own daughter ugly and repulsive . once , in winter , when everything be freeze as hard as a stone , and hill and vale lay cover with snow , the woman make a frock of paper , call she step-daughter , and say , `` here , put on this dress and go out into the wood , and fetch I a little basketful of strawberry , -- I have a fancy for some . '' `` good heaven ! '' say the girl , `` no strawberry grow in winter ! the ground be freeze , and besides the snow have cover everything . and why be I to go in this paper frock ? it be so cold outside that one 's very breath freeze ! the wind will blow through the frock , and the thorn will tear it off my body . '' `` wilt thou contradict I again ? '' say the stepmother , `` see that thou goest , and do not show thy face again until thou hast the basketful of strawberry ! '' then she give she a little piece of hard bread , and say , `` this will last thee the day , '' and think , `` Thou wilt die of cold and hunger outside , and wilt never be see again by I . '' then the maiden be obedient , and put on the paper frock , and go out with the basket . Far and wide there be nothing but snow , and not a green blade to be see . when she get into the wood she see a small house out of which peep three dwarf . she wish they good day , and knock modestly at the door . they cry , `` come in , '' and she enter the room and seat herself on the bench by the stove , where she begin to warm herself and eat she breakfast . the elf say , `` give we , too , some of it . '' `` willingly , '' she say , and divide she bit of bread in two and give they the half . they ask , `` what dost thou here in the forest in the winter time , in thy thin dress ? '' `` ah , '' she answer , `` I be to look for a basketful of strawberry , and be not to go home until I can take they with I . '' when she have eat she bread , they give she a broom and say , `` sweep away the snow at the back door with it . '' but when she be outside , the three little man say to each other , `` what shall we give she as she be so good , and have share she bread with we ? '' then say the first , `` my gift be , that she shall every day grow more beautiful . '' the second say , `` my gift be , that gold piece shall fall out of she mouth every time she speak . '' the third say , `` my gift be , that a king shall come and take she to wife . '' the girl , however , do as the little man have bid she , sweep away the snow behind the little house with the broom , and what do she find but real ripe strawberry , which come up quite dark-red out of the snow ! in she joy she hastily gather she basket full , thank the little man , shake hand with each of they , and run home to take she step-mother what she have long for so much . when she go in and say good-evening , a piece of gold at once fall from she mouth . Thereupon she relate what have happen to she in the wood , but with every word she speak , gold piece fall from she mouth , until very soon the whole room be cover with they . `` now look at she arrogance , '' cry the step-sister , `` to throw about gold in that way ! '' but she be secretly envious of it , and want to go into the forest also to seek strawberry . the mother say , `` no , my dear little daughter , it be too cold , thou mightest die of cold . '' however , as she daughter let she have no peace , the mother at last yield , make she a magnificent dress of fur , which she be oblige to put on , and give she bread-and-butter and cake with she . the girl go into the forest and straight up to the little house . the three little elf peep out again , but she do not greet they , and without look round at they and without speak to they , she go awkwardly into the room , seat herself by the stove , and begin to eat she bread-and-butter and cake . `` give we some of it , '' cry the little man ; but she reply , `` there be not enough for myself , so how can I give it away to other people ? '' when she have do eating , they say , `` there be a broom for thee , sweep all clean for we outside by the back-door . '' `` Humph ! sweep for yourselve , '' she answer , `` I be not you servant . '' when she see that they be not go to give she anything , she go out by the door . then the little man say to each other , `` what shall we give she as she be so naughty , and have a wicked envious heart , that will never let she do a good turn to any one ? '' the first say , `` I grant that she may grow uglier every day . '' the second say , `` I grant that at every word she say , a toad shall spring out of she mouth . '' the third say , `` I grant that she may die a miserable death . '' the maiden look for strawberry outside , but as she find none , she go angrily home . and when she open she mouth , and be about to tell she mother what have happen to she in the wood , with every word she say , a toad spring out of she mouth , so that every one be seize with horror of she . then the step-mother be still more enraged , and thought of nothing but how to do every possible injury to the man 's daughter , whose beauty , however , grow daily greater . at length she take a cauldron , set it on the fire , and boil yarn in it . when it be boil , she fling it on the poor girl 's shoulder , and give she a axe in order that she might go on the frozen river , cut a hole in the ice , and rinse the yarn . she be obedient , go thither and cut a hole in the ice ; and while she be in the midst of she cutting , a splendid carriage come drive up , in which sit the King . the carriage stop , and the King ask , `` my child , who be thou , and what art thou do here ? '' `` I be a poor girl , and I be rinse yarn . '' then the King feel compassion , and when he see that she be so very beautiful , he say to she , `` wilt thou go away with I ? '' `` ah , yes , with all my heart , '' she answer , for she be glad to get away from the mother and sister . so she get into the carriage and drive away with the King , and when they arrive at he palace , the wedding be celebrate with great pomp , as the little man have grant to the maiden . when a year be over , the young Queen bear a son , and as the step-mother have hear of she great good-fortune , she come with she daughter to the palace and pretend that she want to pay she a visit . once , however , when the King have go out , and no one else be present , the wicked woman seize the Queen by the head , and she daughter seize she by the foot , and they lift she out of the bed , and throw she out of the window into the stream which flow by . then the ugly daughter lay herself in the bed , and the old woman cover she up over she head . when the King come home again and want to speak to he wife , the old woman cry , `` Hush , hush , that can not be now , she be lie in a violent perspiration ; you must let she rest to-day . '' the King suspect no evil , and do not come back again till next morning ; and as he talk with he wife and she answer he , with every word a toad leap out , whereas formerly a piece of gold have fall out . then he ask what that could be , but the old woman say that she have get that from the violent perspiration , and would soon lose it again . during the night , however , the scullion see a duck come swimming up the gutter , and it say , `` King , what art thou do now ? sleepest thou , or wakest thou ? '' and as he return no answer , it say , `` and my guest , what may they do ? '' the scullion say , `` they be sleep soundly , too . '' then it ask again , `` what do little baby mine ? '' he answer , `` Sleepeth in she cradle fine . '' then she go upstairs in the form of the Queen , nurse the baby , shake up its little bed , cover it over , and then swim away again down the gutter in the shape of a duck . she come thus for two night ; on the third , she say to the scullion , `` go and tell the King to take he sword and swing it three time over I on the threshold . '' then the scullion run and tell this to the King , who come with he sword and swing it thrice over the spirit , and at the third time , he wife stand before he strong , live , and healthy as she have be before . Thereupon the King be full of great joy , but he keep the Queen hide in a chamber until the Sunday , when the baby be to be christen . and when it be christen he say , `` what do a person deserve who drag another out of bed and throw he in the water ? '' `` the wretch deserve nothing better , '' answer the old woman , `` than to be take and put in a barrel stick full of nail , and roll down hill into the water . '' `` then , '' say the King , `` Thou hast pronounce thine own sentence ; '' and he order such a barrel to be bring , and the old woman to be put into it with she daughter , and then the top be hammer on , and the barrel roll down hill until it go into the river .