the story of the year . H. C. Andersen it be far in January , and a terrible fall of snow be pelt down . the snow eddy through the street and lane ; the window-panes seem plaster with snow on the outside ; snow plump down in mass from the roof : and a sudden hurry have seize on the people , for they run , and fly , and fall into each other ' arm , and as they clutch each other fast for a moment , they feel that they be safe at least for that length of time . coach and horse seem frost with sugar . the footman stand with they back against the carriage , so as to turn they face from the wind . the foot passenger keep in the shelter of the carriage , which could only move slowly on in the deep snow ; and when the storm at last abate , and a narrow path be sweep clean alongside the house , the people stand still in this path when they meet , for none like to take the first step aside into the deep snow to let the other pass he . thus they stand silent and motionless , till , as if by tacit consent , each sacrifice one leg , and step aside , bury it in the deep snow-heap . towards evening it grow calm . the sky look as if it have be sweep , and have become more lofty and transparent . the star look as if they be quite new , and some of they be amazingly bright and pure . it freeze so hard that the snow creak , and the upper rind of snow might well have grow hard enough to bear the sparrow in the morning dawn . these little bird hop up and down where the sweeping have be do ; but they find very little food , and be not a little cold . `` piep ! '' say one of they to another ; `` they call this a new year , and it be worse than the last ! we might just as well have keep the old one . I be dissatisfied , and I have a right to be so . '' `` yes ; and the people run about and fire off shot to celebrate the new year , '' say a little shiver sparrow ; `` and they throw pan and pot against the door , and be quite boisterous with joy , because the old year be go . I be glad of it too , because I hope we should have have warm day ; but that have come to nothing -- it freeze much harder than before . people have make a mistake in reckon the time ! '' `` that they have ! '' a third put in , who be old , and have a white poll ; `` they have something they call the calendar -- it be a invention of they own -- and everything be to be arrange accord to that ; but it will not do . when spring come , then the year begin , and I reckon accord to that . '' `` but when will spring come ? '' the other inquire . `` it will come when the stork come back . but he movement be very uncertain , and here in town no one know anything about it : in the country they be better inform . Shall we fly out there and wait ? there , at any rate , we shall be nearer to spring . '' `` yes , that may be all very well , '' observe one of the sparrow , who have be hop about for a long time , chirp , without say anything decide . `` I have find a few comfort here in town , which I be afraid I should miss out in the country . near this neighborhood , in a courtyard , there live a family of people , who have take the very sensible notion of place three or four flower-pots against the wall , with they mouth all turn inwards , and the bottom of each point outward . in each flower-pot a hole have be cut , big enough for I to fly in and out at it . I and my husband have build a nest in one of those pot , and have bring up we young family there . the family of people of course make the whole arrangement that they might have the pleasure of see we , or else they would not have do it . to please themselves they also strew crumb of bread ; and so we have food , and be in a manner provide for . so I think my husband and I will stay where we be , although we be very dissatisfied -- but we shall stay . '' `` and we will fly into the country to see if spring be not come ! '' and away they fly . out in the country it be hard winter , and the glass be a few degree lower than in the town . the sharp wind sweep across the snow-covered field . the farmer , muffle in warm mitten , sit in he sledge , and beat he arm across he breast to warm himself , and the whip lay across he knee . the horse run till they smoke again . the snow creak , and the sparrow hop about in the rut , and shiver , `` Piep ! when will spring come ? it be very long in come ! '' `` very long , '' sound from the next snow-covered hill , far over the field . it might be the echo which be hear ; or perhaps the word be speak by yonder wonderful old man , who sit in wind and weather high on the heap of snow . he be quite white , attire like a peasant in a coarse white coat of frieze ; he have long white hair , and be quite pale , with big blue eye . `` who be that old man yonder ? '' ask the sparrow . `` I know who he be , '' quoth a old raven , who sit on the fence-rail , and be condescend enough to acknowledge that we be all like little bird in the sight of Heaven , and therefore be not above speak to the sparrow , and give they information . `` I know who the old man be . it be Winter , the old man of last year . he be not dead , as the calendar say , but be guardian to little Prince Spring , who be to come . Yes , Winter bear sway here . Ugh ! the cold make you shiver , do it not , you little one ? '' `` yes . do I not tell the truth ? '' say the smallest sparrow : `` the calendar be only a invention of man , and be not arrange accord to nature ! they ought to leave these thing to we , who be bear cleverer than they . '' and one week pass away , and two pass away . the frozen lake lay hard and stiff , look like a sheet of lead , and damp icy mist lay brood over the land ; the great black crow fly about in long row , but silently ; and it seem as if nature sleep . then a sunbeam glide along over the lake , and make it shine like burnish tin . the snowy covering on the field and on the hill do not glitter as it have do ; but the white form , Winter himself , still sit there , he gaze fix unswervingly upon the south . he do not notice that the snowy carpet seem to sink as it be into the earth , and that here and there a little grass-green patch appear , and that all these patch be crowd with sparrow . `` kee-wit ! kee-wit ! be spring come now ? '' `` spring ! '' the cry resound over field and meadow , and through the black-brown wood , where the moss still glimmer in bright green upon the tree trunk ; and from the south the first two stork come fly through the air . on the back of each sit a pretty little child -- one be a girl and the other a boy . they greet the earth with a kiss , and wherever they set they foot , white flower grow up from beneath the snow . then they go hand in hand to the old ice man , Winter , cling to he breast embrace he , and in a moment they , and he , and all the region around be hide in a thick damp mist , dark and heavy , that close over all like a veil . gradually the wind rise , and now it rush roar along , and drive away the mist with heavy blow , so that the sun shone warmly forth , and Winter himself vanish , and the beautiful child of Spring sit on the throne of the year . `` that be what I call spring , '' cry each of the sparrow . `` now we shall get we rights , and have amends for the stern winter . '' wherever the two child turn , green bud burst forth on bush and tree , the grass shot upward , and the corn-fields turn green and become more and more lovely . and the little maiden strewed flower all around . she apron , which she hold up before she , be always full of they ; they seem to spring up there , for she lap continue full , however zealously she strew the blossom around ; and in she eagerness she scatter a snow of blossom over apple tree and peach tree , so that they stand in full beauty before they green leaf have fairly come forth . and she clap she hand , and the boy clap he , and then flock of bird come fly up , nobody know whence , and they all twitter and sing , `` spring have come . '' that be beautiful to behold . many a old granny creep forth over the threshold into the sunshine , and trip gleefully about , cast a glance at the yellow flower which shine everywhere in the field , just as they use to do when she be young . the world grow young again to she , and she say , `` it be a bless day out here to-day ! '' the forest still wear its brown-green dress , make of bud ; but the thyme be already there , fresh and fragrant ; there be violet in plenty , anemone and primrose come forth , and there be sap and strength in every blade of grass . that be certainly a beautiful carpet on which no one could resist sit down , and there accordingly the young spring pair sit hand in hand , and sing and smile , and grow on . a mild rain fall down upon they from the sky , but they do not notice it , for the rain-drops be mingle with they own tear of joy . they kiss each other , and be betroth as people that should marry , and in the same moment the verdure of the wood be unfold , and when the sun rise , the forest stand there array in green . and hand in hand the betrothed pair wander under the fresh pendent ocean of leaf , where the ray of the sun gleam through the interstice in lovely , change hue . what virgin purity , what refresh balm in the delicate leaf ! the brook and stream ripple clearly and merrily among the green velvety rush and over the color pebble . all nature seem to say , `` there be plenty , and there shall be plenty always ! '' and the cuckoo sing and the lark carol : it be a charming spring ; but the willow have woolly glove over they blossom : they be desperately careful , and that be wearisome . and day go by and week go by , and the heat come as it be whirling down . hot wave of air come through the corn , that become yellower and yellower . the white water-lily of the north spread its great green leaf over the glassy mirror of the woodland lake , and the fish seek out the shady spot beneath ; and at the sheltered side of the wood , where the sun shone down upon the wall of the farmhouse , warm the bloom rose , and the cherry tree , which hang full of juicy black berry , almost hot with the fierce beam , there sit the lovely wife of Summer , the same be whom we have see as a child and as a bride ; and she glance be fix upon the black gathering cloud , which in wavy outline -- blue-black and heavy -- be pile themselves up , like mountain , higher and higher . they come from three side , and grow like a petrified sea , they come swoop towards the forest , where every sound have be silence as if by magic . every breath of air be hush , every bird be mute . there be a seriousness -- a suspense throughout all nature ; but in the highway and lane , foot passenger , and rider , and man in carriage be hurry on to get under shelter . then suddenly there be a flash of light , as if the sun be burst forth -- flaming , burning , all-devouring ! and the darkness return amid a rolling crash . the rain pour down in stream , and there be alternate darkness and blind light ; alternate silence and deafen clamor . the young , brown , feathery reed on the moor move to and fro in long wave , the twig of the wood be hide in a mist of water , and still come darkness and light , and still silence and roaring follow one another ; grass and corn lay beat down and swamp , look as though they could never raise themselves again . but soon the rain fall only in gentle drop , the sun peer through the cloud , the water-drops glitter like pearl on the leaf , the bird sing , the fish leap up from the surface of the lake , the gnat dance in the sunshine , and yonder on the rock , in the salt , heave sea water , sit Summer himself -- a strong man with sturdy limb and long drip hair -- there he sit , strengthen by the cool bath , in the warm sunshine . all nature round about be renew , everything stand luxuriant , strong and beautiful ; it be summer , warm , lovely summer . and pleasant and sweet be the fragrance that stream upward from the rich clover-field , where the bee swarm round the old ruin place of meeting : the bramble wound itself around the altar stone , which , wash by the rain , glitter in the sunshine ; and thither fly the queen-bee with she swarm , and prepared wax and honey . only Summer see it , he and he strong wife ; for they the altar table stand cover with the offering of nature . and the evening sky shone like gold , shone as no church dome can shine ; and in the interval between the evening and the morning red , there be moonlight : it be summer . and day go by , and week go by . the bright scythe of the reaper gleam in the corn-fields ; the branch of the apple tree bent down , heavy with red-and-yellow fruit . the hop smell sweetly , hang in large cluster ; and under the hazel bush where hung great bunch of nut , rest a man and woman -- Summer and he quiet consort . `` what wealth ! '' exclaim the woman : `` all around a blessing be diffused , everywhere the scene look homelike and good ; and yet -- I know not why -- I long for peace and rest -- I know not how to express it . now they be already plough again in the field . the people want to gain more and more . See , the stork flock together , and follow at a little distance behind the plough -- the bird of Egypt that carry we through the air . do you remember how we come as child to this land of the North ? we bring with we flower , and pleasant sunshine , and green to the wood ; the wind have treat they roughly , and they have become dark and brown like the tree of the South , but they do not , like they , bear fruit . '' `` do you wish to see the golden fruit ? '' say the man : `` then rejoice . '' and he lift he arm , and the leaf of the forest put on hue of red and gold , and beauteous tint spread over all the woodland . the rise bush gleam with scarlet hip ; the elder branch hang down with great heavy bunch of dark berry ; the wild chestnut fall ripe from they dark husk ; and in the depths of the forest the violet bloom for the second time . but the Queen of the year become more and more silent , and paler and paler . `` it blow cold , '' she say , `` and night bring damp mist . I long for the land of my childhood . '' and she see the stork fly away , one and all ; and she stretch forth she hand towards they . she look up at the nest , which stand empty . in one of they the long-stalked cornflower be grow ; in another , the yellow mustard-seed , as if the nest be only there for its protection and comfort ; and the sparrow be fly up into the stork ' nest . `` piep ! where have the master go ? I suppose he can not bear it when the wind blow , and that therefore he have leave the country . I wish he a pleasant journey ! '' the forest leave become more and more yellow , leaf fall down upon leaf , and the stormy wind of autumn howl . the year be far advance , and the Queen of the year recline upon the fallen yellow leaf , and look with mild eye at the gleaming star , and she husband stand by she . a gust sweep through the leaf ; they fall again in a shower , and the Queen be go , but a butterfly , the last of the season , fly through the cold air . the wet fog come , a icy wind blow , and the long dark night draw on apace . the ruler of the year stand there with lock white as snow , but he know not it be he hair that gleam so white -- he think snow-flakes be fall from the cloud ; and soon a thin covering of snow be spread over the field . and then the church bell ring for the Christmas time . `` the bell ring for the new-born , '' say the ruler of the year . `` soon the new king and queen will be bear ; and I shall go to rest , as my wife have do -- to rest in the gleaming star . '' and in the fresh green fir wood , where the snow lay , stand the Angel of Christmas , and consecrate the young tree that be to adorn he feast . `` May there be joy in the room , and under the green bough , '' say the ruler of the year . in a few week he have become a very old man , white as snow . `` my time for rest draw near , and the young pair of the year shall now receive my crown and sceptre . '' `` but the might be still thine , '' say the Angel of Christmas ; `` the might and not the rest . let the snow lie warmly upon the young seed . learn to bear it , that another receive homage while thou yet reignest . learn to bear be forget while thou art yet alive . the hour of thy release will come when spring appear . '' `` and when will spring come ? '' ask Winter . `` it will come when the stork return . '' and with white lock and snowy beard , cold , bent , and hoary , but strong as the wintry storm , and firm as ice , old Winter sit on the snowy drift on the hill , look towards the south , where he have before sit and gaze . the ice crack , the snow creak , the skater skim to and fro on the smooth lake , raven and crow contrast picturesquely with the white ground , and not a breath of wind stir . and in the quiet air old Winter clench he fist , and the ice be fathom thick between land and land . then the sparrow come again out of the town , and ask , `` who be that old man yonder ? '' and the raven sit there again , or a son of he , which come to quite the same thing , and answer they and say , `` it be Winter , the old man of last year . he be not dead , as the almanack say , but he be the guardian of spring , who be come . '' `` when will spring come ? '' ask the sparrow . `` then we shall have good time , and a better rule . the old one be worth nothing . '' and Winter nod in quiet thought at the leafless forest , where every tree show the graceful form and bend of its twig ; and during the winter sleep the icy mist of the cloud come down , and the ruler dream of he youthful day , and of the time of he manhood ; and towards the morning dawn the whole wood be clothe in glitter hoar frost . that be the summer dream of winter , and the sun scatter the hoar frost from the bough . `` when will spring come ? '' ask the sparrow . `` the spring ! '' sound like a echo from the hill on which the snow lay . the sun shone warmer , the snow melt , and the bird twitter , `` spring be come ! '' and aloft through the air come the first stork , and the second follow he . a lovely child sit on the back of each , and they alight on the field , kiss the earth , and kiss the old silent man , and he disappear , shroud in the cloudy mist . and the story of the year be do . `` that be all very well , '' say the sparrow ; `` it be very beautiful too , but it be not accord to the almanack , and therefore it be irregular . ''