the second voyage of SINBAD the SAILOR Arabian Writer I design , after my first voyage , to spend the rest of my day at Bagdad ; but it be not long ere I grow weary of a quiet life . my inclination to trade revive . I buy goods suit to the commerce I intend , and put to sea a second time , with merchant of know probity . we embark on board a good ship , and after recommend ourselves to God , set sail . we trade from island to island , and exchange commodity with great profit . one day we land on a island cover with several sort of fruit tree , but so unpeopled , that we could see neither man nor beast upon it . we go to take a little fresh air in the meadow , and along the stream that water they . whilst some divert themselves with gather flower , and other with gathering fruit , I take my wine and provision , and sit down by a stream betwixt two great tree , which form a curious shape . I make a very good meal , and afterwards fall asleep . I can not tell how long I sleep , but when I awake the ship be go . I be very much surprised to find the ship go . I get up and look about everywhere , and could not see one of the merchant who land with I . at last I perceive the ship under sail , but at such a distance that I lose sight of she in a very little time . I leave you to guess at my melancholy reflection in this sad condition . I be ready to die with grief : I cry out sadly , beat my head and breast , and throw myself down upon the ground , where I lay some time in a terrible agony . I upbraid myself a hundred time for not be content with the produce of my first voyage , that might well have serve I all my life . but all this be in vain , and my repentance out of season . at last I resign myself to the will of God ; and not know what to do , I climb up to the top of a great tree , from whence I look about on all side to see if there be anything that could give I hope . when I look towards the sea , I could see nothing but sky and water , but look towards the land I see something white ; and , come down from the tree , I take up what provision I have leave and go towards it , the distance be so great that I could not distinguish what it be . when I come nearer , I think it to be a white bowl of a prodigious height and bigness ; and when I come up to it I touch it , and find it to be very smooth . I go round to see if it be open on any side , but see it be not , and that there be no climb up to the top of it , it be so smooth . it be at least fifty pace round . by this time the sun be ready to set , and all of a sudden the sky become as dark as if it have be cover with a thick cloud . I be much astonish at this sudden darkness , but much more when I find it be occasion by a bird , of a monstrous size , that come fly toward I . I remember a fowl , call roc , that I have often hear mariner speak of , and conceive that the great bowl , which I so much admire , must need be its egg . in short , the bird light , and sit over the egg to hatch it . as I perceive she come , I creep close to the egg , so that I have before I one of the leg of the bird , which be as big as the trunk of a tree . I tie myself strongly to it with the cloth that go round my turban , in hope that when the roc fly away next morning she would carry I with she out of this desert island . and after have pass the night in this condition , the bird really fly away next morning , as soon as it be day , and carry I so high that I could not see the earth . then she descend all of a sudden , with so much rapidity that I lose my sens ; but when the roc be settle , and I find myself upon the ground , I speedily untie the knot , and have scarcely do so when the bird , have take up a serpent of a monstrous length in she bill , fly away . the place where she leave I be a very deep valley , encompass on all side with mountain , so high that they seem to reach above the cloud , and so full of steep rock that there be no possibility of get out of the valley . this be a new perplexity , so that when I compare this place with the desert island from which the roc bring I , I find that I have gain nothing by the change . as I walk through this valley I perceive it be strew with diamond , some of which be of surprising bigness . I take a great deal of pleasure in look at they ; but speedily I see at a distance such object as very much diminished my satisfaction , and which I could not look upon without terror ; they be a great number of serpent , so big and so long that the least of they be capable of swallow a elephant . they retire in the day-time to they den , where they hide themselves from the roc , they enemy , and do not come out but in the night-time . I spend the day in walk about the valley , rest myself at time in such place as I think most suitable . when night come on I go into a cave , where I think I might be in safety . I stop the mouth of it , which be low and straight , with a great stone , to preserve I from the serpent , but not so exactly fit as to hinder light from come in . I sup on part of my provision , but the serpent , which begin to appear , hiss about in the meantime , put I into such extreme fear that you may easily imagine I do not sleep . when day appear the serpent retire , and I come out of the cave tremble . I can justly say that I walk a long time upon diamond without feel a inclination to touch any of they . at last I sit down , and notwithstanding my uneasiness , not have shut my eye during the night , I fall asleep , after have eat a little more of my provision ; but I have scarcely shut my eye when something that fall by I with great noise awaken I . this be a great piece of fresh meat , and at the same time I see several other fall down from the rock in different place . I have always look upon it as a fable when I hear mariner and other discourse of the valley of diamond , and of the stratagem make use of by some merchant to get jewel from thence ; but now I find it to be true . for , in reality , those merchant come to the neighborhood of this valley when the eagle have young one , and throw great joint of meat into the valley , the diamond , upon whose point they fall , stick to they ; the eagle , which be stronger in this country than anywhere else , pounce with great force upon those piece of meat , and carry they to they nest upon the top of the rock to feed they young with , at which time the merchant , run to they nest , frighten the eagle by they noise , and take away the diamond that stick to the meat . and this stratagem they make use of to get the diamond out of the valley , which be surround with such precipice that nobody can enter it . I believe till then that it be not possible for I to get out of this abyss , which I look upon as my grave ; but now I change my mind , for the fall in of those piece of meat put I in hope of a way of save my life . I begin to gather together the largest diamond that I could see , and put they into the leathern bag in which I use to carry my provision . I afterwards take the largest piece of meat I could find , tie it close round I with the cloth of my turban , and then lay myself upon the ground , with my face downward , the bag of diamond be tie fast to my girdle , so that it could not possibly drop off . I have scarcely lay I down before the eagle come . each of they seize a piece of meat , and one of the strongest have take I up , with a piece of meat on my back , carry I to he nest on the top of the mountain . the merchant fall straightway to shouting , to frighten the eagle ; and when they have oblige they to quit they prey , one of they come to the nest where I be . he be very much afraid when he see I , but recover himself , instead of inquire how I come thither , he begin to quarrel with I , and ask why I steal he goods . ` you will treat I , ' reply I , ` with more civility when you know I better . Do not trouble yourself ; I have diamond enough for you and myself too , more than all the other merchant together . if they have any , it be by chance ; but I choose myself in the bottom of the valley all those which you see in this bag ' ; and have speak those word , I show they to he . I have scarcely do speaking , when the other merchant come troop about we , much astonish to see I ; but they be much more surprised when I tell they my story . yet they do not so much admire my stratagem to save myself as my courage to attempt it . they take I to the place where they be stay all together , and there have open my bag , they be surprise at the largeness of my diamond , and confess that in all the court where they have be they have never see any that come near they . I pray the merchant to whom the nest belong -lrb-B- for every merchant have he own -rrb-B- , to take as many for he share as he please . he contented himself with one , and that too the least of they ; and when I press he to take more , without fear of do I any injury , ` no , ' say he , ` I be very well satisfy with this , which be valuable enough to save I the trouble of make any more voyage to raise as great a fortune as I desire . ' I spend the night with those merchant , to whom I tell my story a second time , for the satisfaction of those who have not hear it . I could not moderate my joy when I find myself deliver from the danger I have mention . I think I be in a dream , and could scarcely believe myself to be out of danger . the merchant have throw they piece of meat into the valley for several day , and each of they be satisfy with the diamond that have fall to he lot , we leave the place next morning all together , and travel near high mountain , where there be serpent of a prodigious length , which we have the good fortune to escape . we take ship at the nearest port and come to the Isle of Roha , where the tree grow that yield camphor . this tree be so large , and its branch so thick , that a hundred man may easily sit under its shade . the juice of which the camphor be make run out from a hole bore in the upper part of the tree , be receive in a vessel , where it grow thick , and become what we call camphor ; and the juice thus draw out the tree withers and die . there be in this island the rhinoceros , a creature less than the elephant , but greater than the buffalo ; it have a horn upon its nose about a cubit long ; this horn be solid , and cleft in the middle from one end to the other , and there be upon it white line , represent the figure of a man . the rhinoceros fight with the elephant , run he horn into he , and carry he off upon he head ; but the blood of the elephant run into he eye and make he blind , he fall to the ground , and then , strange to relate , the roc come and carry they both away in she claw to be food for she young one . here I exchange some of my diamond for good merchandise . from thence we go to other isle , and at last , have touch at several trading town of the main land , we land at Balsora , from whence I go to Bagdad . there I immediately give great alms to the poor , and live honourably upon the vast riches I have gain with so much fatigue .