the FALCON La Fontain I RECOLLECT , that lately much I blame , the sort of lover , avaricious name ; and if in opposite we reason see , the liberal in paradise should be . the rule be just and , with the warmest zeal , to prove the fact I to the CHURCH appeal . in Florence once there dwell a gentle youth , who love a certain beauteous belle with truth ; O'er all he action she have full controul ; -- to please he would have sell he very soul . if she amusement wish , he have lavish gold , convince in love or war you should be bold ; the cash ne'er spare : -- invincible its pow ` r , o'erturn wall or door where'er it show ` r . the precious ore can every thing o ` ercome ; ` Twill silence bark cur : make servant dumb ; and these can render eloquent at will : -- Excel e ` en Tully in persuasive skill ; in short he would leave no quarter unsubdued , unless therein the fair he could include . SHE stand th ' attack howe'er , and Frederick fail ; he force be vain whenever he assail ; without the least return he wealth he spend : land , house , manor of immense extent , be ev ` ry now and then to auction bring ; to gratify he love be all he think . the rank of ` squire till lately he have claim ; now scarcely be he even mister name ; of wealth by Cupid 's stratagem bereft , a single farm be all the man have leave ; friend very few , and such as God alone , could tell if friendship they might not disown ; the best be lead they pity to express ; 'Twas all he get : it could not well be less ; to lend without security be wrong , and former favor they would forget long ; with all that Frederick could or say or do , he liberal conduct soon be lose to view . with Clytia he no longer be receive , than while he be a man of wealth believe ; ball , concert , op ` ras , tournament , and play , expensive dress , all engaging way , be use to captivate this lady fair , while scarcely one around but in despair , Wife , widow , maid , he fond affection seek ; to gain he , ev ` ry wily art be bring ; but all in vain : -- by passion overpow ` red , the belle , whose conduct other would have sour , to he appear a goddess full of charm , Superior e ` en to Helen , in he arm ; from whence we may conclude , the beauteous dame be always deaf to Fred ` rick 's ardent flame . ENAMOURED of the belle , he land he sell ; the family estate be turn to gold ; and many who the purchase have make , with pelf accumulate by they trade , assume the air of man of noble birth : -- fair subject oft for ridicule and mirth ! RICH Clytia be , and she good spouse , ` ti say , have land which far and wide around be spread ; no cash nor present she would ever take , yet suffer Frederick splendid treat to make , without design recompense to grant , or be more than merely complaisant . ALREADY , if my mem ` ry do not fail , I have say , the youth 's estate be put to sale , to pay for feast the fair to entertain , and what he would leave be only one domain , a petty farm to which he now retire ; Ashamed to show where once so much admire , and wretch too , a prey to lorn despair , unable to obtain by splendid care , a beauty he have pursue six year and more , and should for ever fervently adore . he want of merit be the cause he think , that she could never to he wish be bring , while from he not a syllable be hear , against the lovely belle he soul prefer . ` MID poverty oft Fred ` rick sigh and weep ; a toothless hag -- he only servant keep ; he kitchen cold ; -lrb-B- where commonly he dwell ; -rrb-B- a pretty decent horse he stable hold ; a falcon too ; and round about the grange , we quondam ` squire repeatedly would range , where oft , to melancholy , he be lead , to sacrifice the game which near he feed ; by Clytia 's cruelty the gun be seize , and feathered victim black chagrin appease . 'TWAS thus the lover while he hour away ; he heart-felt torment nothing could allay ; bless if with fortune love he would also lose , which constantly he earthly comfort cross ; but this lorn passion prey upon he mind : -- where'er he ride , BLACK CARE would mount behind . death take at length the husband of the fair ; a only son appoint be he heir , a sickly child , whose life , 'twa pretty plain , could scarcely last till spring return again , which make the husband , by he will , decree , he wife the infant 's successor should be , in case the babe at early year should die , who soon grow worse and raise the widow 's sigh . too much affection parent ne'er can show : -- a mother 's feeling none but mother know . FAIR Clytia round she child with anxious care , watch day and night , and no expense would spare ; inquire if this or that would please he taste ; what he desire should be procure with haste ; but nothing would he have that she propose ; a ardent wish howe'er the boy disclose , for Fred ` rick 's falcon , and most anxious grow : -- tear follow tear , and nothing else would do . when once a child have get a whim in brain , no peace , no rest , till he the boon obtain . WE should observe we belle , near Fred ` rick 's cot , a handsome house and many land have get ; 'twa there the lovely babe have lately hear , most wondrous story of the bird aver ; no partridge e ` er escape its rapid wing : -- on every morn down number it would bring ; no money for it would its owner take ; much grieved be Clytia such request to make . the man , for she , of wealth have be bereft ; how ask the only treasure he have leave ? and he if she be lead to importune , could she expect that he would accord the boon ? Alas ! ungratefully she oft repay , he liberal treat , he concert , serenade , and haughtily behave from first to last : how be so bold , -lrb-B- reflect on the past , -rrb-B- to see the man that she so ill have use ? and ask a favor ? -- could she be excuse ? but then she child ! -- perhaps he life ` twould save ; Naught would he take ; the falcon she must crave . that she sweet babe might be induce to eat , so mean the bird of Fred ` rick to intreat ; she boy be hear continually to cry , unless he have the falcon , he should die . these reason strongly with the mother weigh ; she visit to the ` squire be not delay ; with fond affection for she darling heir , one morn , alone she seek the lorn repair . to Fred ` rick 's eye a angel she appear ; but shame he feel , that she , he soul revere , should find he poor : -- no servant to attend , nor mean to give a dinner to a friend . the poverty in which he now be view , distress he mind and all he grief renew . why come ? say he ; what lead you thus to trace , a humble slave of you celestial face ? a villager , a wretch be here ; too great the honor doubtless must appear ; 'Twas somewhere else you surely mean to go ? the lady in a moment answer no. . cry he , I have neither cook nor kettle left ; then how can I receive you , thus bereft ? but you have bread , say Clytia : -- that will do ; -- the lover quickly to the poultry fly , in search of egg ; some bacon too he find ; but nothing else , except the hawk renown , which catch he eye , and instantly be seize , Slain , pluck , and make a fricassee that please . meanwhile the house-keeper for linen seek ; Knives , fork , plate , spoon , cup , glass and chair she bring ; the fricassee be serve , the dame partook , and on the dish with pleasure seem to look . the dinner o ` er , the widow then resolve , to ask the boon which in she mind resolve . she thus begin : -- good sir , you 'll think I mad , to come and to you breast fresh trouble add ; I have much to ask , and you will feel surprise , that one , for whom you love could ne'er suffice , should now request you celebrated bird ; can I expect the grant ? -- the thought 's absurd but pardon pray a mother 's anxious fear ; ` Tis for my child : -- he life to I be dear . the falcon solely can the infant save ; yet since to you I nothing ever give , for all you kindness oft on I bestow ; you fortune waste : -- e ` en you nice abode , Alas ! disposed of , large supplies to raise , to entertain and please in various way : I can not hope this falcon to obtain ; for sure I be the expectation 's vane ; No , rather perish child and mother too ; than such uneasiness should you pursue : allow howe'er this parent , I beseech , who love she offspring ` yond the pow ` r of speech , or language to express , she only boy , Sole hope , sole comfort , all she earthly joy , true mother like , to seek she child 's relief , and in you breast deposit now she grief . Affection 's pow ` r none better know than you , -- how few to love be ever half so true ! from such a bosom I may pardon crave Soft pity 's ever with the good and brave ! ALAS ! the wretched lover straight reply , the bird be all I could for you provide ; 'Twas serve for dinner . -- Dead ? -- exclaim the dame , while tremble terror overspread she frame . no jest , say he , and from the soul I wish , my heart , instead of that , have be the dish ; but doom alas ! be I by fate , ` tis clear , to find no grace with she my soul hold dear : I would nothing leave ; and when I see the bird , to kill it instantly the thought occur ; those naught we grudge nor spare to entertain , who o ` er we feeling bosom sov ` reign reign : all I can do be speedily to get , another falcon : easily they be meet ; and by to-morrow I 'll the bird procure . no , Fred ` rick , she reply , I now conjure you 'll think no more about it ; what you have do be all that fondness could have show a son ; and whether fate have doom the child to die , or with my prayer the pow ` r above comply ; for you my gratitude will never end -- Pray let we hope to see you as a friend . THEN Clytia take she leave , and give she hand ; a proof he love no more she would withstand . he kiss and bath she finger with he tear ; the second day grim death confirm they fear : the mourn last long and mother 's grief ; but day and month at length bestow relief ; no wretchedness so great , we may depend , but what , to time 's all-conqu ` ring sithe will bend : two famed physician manage with such care ; that they recover she from wild despair , and tear give place to cheerfulness and joy : -- the one be TIME the other Venus ' Boy . she hand fair Clytia on the youth bestow , as much from love as what to he she owe . LET not this instance howsoe ` r mislead ; ` Twere wrong with hope we fond desire to feed , and waste we substance thus : -- not all the FAIR , Possess of gratitude a decent share . with this exception they appear divine ; in lovely WOMAN angel-charms combine ; the whole indeed I do not here include ; Alas ; too many act the jilt and prude . when kind , they be ev ` ry blessing find below : when otherwise a curse we often know .