92 the king of the Golden Mountain BrothersS Grimm there be a certain merchant who have two child , a boy and a girl ; they be both young , and could not walk . and two richly-laden ship of he sail forth to sea with all he property on board , and just as he be expect to win much money by they , news come that they have go to the bottom , and now instead of be a rich man he be a poor one , and have nothing leave but one field outside the town . in order to drive he misfortune a little out of he thought , he go out to this field , and as he be walk forwards and backwards in it , a little black mannikin stand suddenly by he side , and ask why he be so sad , and what he be take so much to heart . then say the merchant , `` if thou couldst help I I would willingly tell thee . '' `` who know ? '' reply the black dwarf . `` perhaps , I can help thee . '' then the merchant tell he that all he possess have go to the bottom of the sea , and that he have nothing leave but this field . `` do not trouble thyself , '' say the dwarf . `` if thou wilt promise to give I the first thing that rub itself against thy leg when thou art at home again , and to bring it here to this place in twelve year ' time , thou shalt have as much money as thou wilt . '' the merchant thought , `` what can that be but my dog ? '' and do not remember he little boy , so he say yes , give the black man a write and seal promise , and go home . when he reach home , he little boy be so delighted that he hold by a bench , totter up to he and seize he fast by the leg . the father be shock , for he remember he promise , and now know what he have pledge himself to do ; as however , he still find no money in he chest , he think the dwarf have only be jest . a month afterwards he go up to the garret , intend to gather together some old tin and to sell it , and see a great heap of money lie . then he be happy again , make purchase , become a greater merchant than before , and feel that this world be well-governed . in the meantime the boy grow tall , and at the same time sharp and clever . but the nearer the twelfth year approach the more anxious grow the merchant , so that he distress might be see in he face . one day he son ask what ail he , but the father would not say . the boy , however , persist so long , that at last he tell he that without be aware of what he be do , he have promise he to a black dwarf , and have receive much money for do so . he say likewise that he have set he hand and seal to this , and that now when twelve year have go by he would have to give he up . then say the son , `` oh , father , do not be uneasy , all will go well . the black man have no power over I . '' the son have himself bless by the priest , and when the time come , father and son go together to the field , and the son make a circle and place himself inside it with he father . then come the black dwarf and say to the old man , `` hast thou bring with thee that which thou hast promise I ? '' he be silent , but the son ask , `` what dost thou want here ? '' then say the black dwarf , `` I have to speak with thy father , and not with thee . '' the son reply , `` Thou hast betray and mislead my father , give back the writing . '' `` no , '' say the black dwarf , `` I will not give up my rights . '' they speak together for a long time after this , but at last they agree that the son , as he do not belong to the enemy of mankind , nor yet to he father , should seat himself in a small boat , which should lie on water which be flow away from they , and that the father should push it off with he own foot , and then the son should remain give up to the water . so he take leave of he father , place himself in a little boat , and the father have to push it off with he own foot . the boat capsize so that the keel be uppermost , and the father believe he son be lose , and go home and mourn for he . the boat , however , do not sink , but float quietly away , and the boy sit safely inside it , and it float thus for a long time , until at last it stop by a unknown shore . then he land and see a beautiful castle before he , and set out to go to it . but when he enter it , he find that it be bewitch . he go through every room , but all be empty until he reach the last , where a snake lay coil in a ring . the snake , however , be a enchant maiden , who rejoice to see he , and say , `` hast thou come , oh , my deliverer ? I have already wait twelve year for thee ; this kingdom be bewitch , and thou must set it free . '' `` how can I do that ? '' he inquire . `` to-night come twelve black man , cover with chain who will ask what thou art do here ; keep silent ; give they no answer , and let they do what they will with thee ; they will torment thee , beat thee , stab thee ; let everything pass , only do not speak ; at twelve o'clock , they must go away again . on the second night twelve other will come ; on the third , four-and-twenty , who will cut off thy head , but at twelve o'clock they power will be over , and then if thou hast endure all , and hast not speak the slightest word , I shall be release . I will come to thee , and will have , in a bottle , some of the water of life . I will rub thee with that , and then thou wilt come to life again , and be as healthy as before . '' then say he , `` I will gladly set thee free . '' and everything happen just as she have say ; the black man could not force a single word from he , and on the third night the snake become a beautiful princess , who come with the water of life and bring he back to life again . so she throw herself into he arm and kiss he , and there be joy and gladness in the whole castle . after this they marriage be celebrate , and he be King of the Golden Mountain . they live very happily together , and the Queen bear a fine boy . eight year have already go by , when the King bethought he of he father ; he heart be move , and he wish to visit he . the Queen , however , would not let he go away , and say , `` I know beforehand that it will cause my unhappiness ; '' but he suffer she to have no rest until she consent . at they parting she give he a wishing-ring , and say , `` take this ring and put it on thy finger , and then thou wilt immediately be transport whithersoever thou wouldst be , only thou must promise I not to use it in wish I away from this place and with thy father . '' that he promise she , put the ring on he finger , and wish himself at home , just outside the town where he father live . instantly he find himself there , and make for the town , but when he come to the gate , the sentry would not let he in , because he wear such strange and yet such rich and magnificent clothing . then he go to a hill where a shepherd be watch he sheep , change clothes with he , put on he old shepherd 's - coat , and then enter the town without hindrance . when he come to he father , he make himself know to he , but he do not at all believe that the shepherd be he son , and say he certainly have have a son , but that he be dead long ago ; however , as he see he be a poor , needy shepherd , he would give he something to eat . then the shepherd say to he parent , `` I be verily you son . Do you know of no mark on my body by which you could recognize I ? '' `` yes , '' say he mother , `` we son have a raspberry mark under he right arm . '' he slip back he shirt , and they see the raspberry under he right arm , and no longer doubt that he be they son . then he tell they that he be King of the Golden Mountain , and a king 's daughter be he wife , and that they have a fine son of seven year old . then say the father , `` that be certainly not true ; it be a fine kind of a king who go about in a ragged shepherd 's - coat . '' on this the son fall in a passion , and without thinking of he promise , turn he ring round , and wish both he wife and child with he . they be there in a second , but the Queen weep , and reproach he , and say that he have break he word , and have bring misfortune upon she . he say , `` I have do it thoughtlessly , and not with evil intention , '' and try to calm she , and she pretend to believe this ; but she have mischief in she mind . then he lead she out of the town into the field , and show she the stream where the little boat have be push off , and then he say , `` I be tire ; sit down , I will sleep awhile on thy lap . '' and he lay he head on she lap , and fall asleep . when he be asleep , she first draw the ring from he finger , then she draw away the foot which be under he , leave only the slipper behind she , and she take she child in she arm , and wish herself back in she own kingdom . when he awake , there he lay quite desert , and he wife and child be go , and so be the ring from he finger , the slipper only be still there as a token . `` home to thy parent thou canst not return , '' think he , `` they would say that thou wast a wizard ; thou must be off , and walk on until thou arrivest in thine own kingdom . '' so he go away and come at length to a hill by which three giant be stand , dispute with each other because they do not know how to divide they father 's property . when they see he pass by , they call to he and say little man have quick wit , and that he be to divide they inheritance for they . the inheritance , however , consist of a sword , which have this property that if any one take it in he hand , and say , `` all head off but mine , '' every head would lie on the ground ; secondly , of a cloak which make any one who put it on invisible ; thirdly , of a pair of boot which could transport the wearer to any place he wish in a moment . he say , `` give I the three thing that I may see if they be still in good condition . '' they give he the cloak , and when he have put it on , he be invisible and change into a fly . then he resume he own form and say , `` the cloak be a good one , now give I the sword . '' they say , `` no , we will not give thee that ; if thou be to say , all head off but mine , ' all we head would be off , and thou alone wouldst be leave with thine . '' nevertheless they give it to he with the condition that he be only to try it against a tree . this he do , and the sword cut in two the trunk of a tree as if it have be a blade of straw . then he want to have the boot likewise , but they say , `` no , we will not give they ; if thou hadst they on thy foot and wert to wish thyself at the top of the hill , we should be leave down here with nothing . '' `` oh , no , '' say he , `` I will not do that . '' so they give he the boot as well . and now when he have get all these thing , he think of nothing but he wife and he child , and say as though to himself , `` oh , if I be but on the Golden Mountain , '' and at the same moment he vanish from the sight of the giant , and thus they inheritance be divide . when he be near he palace , he hear sound of joy , and fiddle , and flute , and the people tell he that he wife be celebrate she wedding with another . then he fall into a rage , and say , `` false woman , she betray and desert I whilst I be asleep ! '' so he put on he cloak , and unseen by all go into the palace . when he enter the dining-hall a great table be spread with delicious food , and the guest be eating and drinking , and laughing , and jesting . she sit on a royal seat in the midst of they in splendid apparel , with a crown on she head . he place himself behind she , and no one see he . when she put a piece of meat on a plate for herself , he take it away and eat it , and when she pour out a glass of wine for herself , he take it away and drink it . she be always help herself to something , and yet she never get anything , for plate and glass disappear immediately . then dismayed and ashamed , she arise and go to she chamber and weep , but he follow she there . she say , `` have the devil power over I , or do my deliverer never come ? '' then he strike she in the face , and say , `` do thy deliverer never come ? it be he who have thee in he power , thou traitor . Have I deserve this from thee ? '' then he make himself visible , go into the hall , and cry , `` the wedding be at a end , the true King have return . '' the king , prince , and councillor who be assemble there , ridicule and mock he , but he do not trouble to answer they , and say , `` will you go away , or not ? '' on this they try to seize he and press upon he , but he draw he sword and say , `` all head off but mine , '' and all the head roll on the ground , and he alone be master , and once more king of the Golden Mountain .