107 the two TravellersS BrothersS Grimm Hill and vale do not come together , but the child of man do , good and bad . in this way a shoemaker and a tailor once meet with each other in they travels . the tailor be a handsome little fellow who be always merry and full of enjoyment . he see the shoemaker come towards he from the other side , and as he observe by he bag what kind of a trade he ply , he sing a little mocking song to he , `` sew I the seam , draw I the thread , spread it over with pitch , knock the nail on the head . '' the shoemaker , however , could not endure a joke ; he pull a face as if he have drunk vinegar , and make a gesture as if he be about to seize the tailor by the throat . but the little fellow begin to laugh , reach he he bottle , and say , `` no harm be mean , take a drink , and swallow you anger down . '' the shoemaker take a very hearty drink , and the storm on he face begin to clear away . he give the bottle back to the tailor , and say , `` I speak civilly to you ; one speak well after much drinking , but not after much thirst . Shall we travel together ? '' `` all right , '' answer the tailor , `` if only it suit you to go into a big town where there be no lack of work . '' `` that be just where I want to go , '' answer the shoemaker . `` in a small nest there be nothing to earn , and in the country , people like to go barefoot . '' they travel therefore onwards together , and always set one foot before the other like a weasel in the snow . both of they have time enough , but little to bite and to break . when they reach a town they go about and pay they respects to the tradesman , and because the tailor look so lively and merry , and have such pretty red cheek , every one give he work willingly , and when luck be good the master 's daughter give he a kiss beneath the porch , as well . when he again fall in with the shoemaker , the tailor have always the most in he bundle . the ill-tempered shoemaker make a wry face , and think , `` the greater the rascal the more the luck , '' but the tailor begin to laugh and to sing , and share all he get with he comrade . if a couple of penny jingle in he pocket , he order good cheer , and thump the table in he joy till the glass dance , and it be lightly come , lightly go , with he . when they have travel for some time , they come to a great forest through which pass the road to the capital . two foot-paths , however , lead through it , one of which be a seven day ' journey , and the other only two , but neither of the traveller know which way be the short one . they seat themselves beneath a oak-tree , and take counsel together how they should forecast , and for how many day they should provide themselves with bread . the shoemaker say , `` one must look before one leap , I will take with I bread for a week . '' `` what ! '' say the tailor , `` drag bread for seven day on one 's back like a beast of burden , and not be able to look about . I shall trust in God , and not trouble myself about anything ! the money I have in my pocket be as good in summer as in winter , but in hot weather bread get dry , and mouldy into the bargain ; even my coat do not go as far as it might . besides , why should we not find the right way ? bread for two day , and that be enough . '' each , therefore , buy he own bread , and then they try they luck in the forest . it be as quiet there as in a church . no wind stir , no brook murmur , no bird sing , and through the thickly-leaved branch no sunbeam force its way . the shoemaker speak never a word , the heavy bread weigh down he back until the perspiration stream down he cross and gloomy face . the tailor , however , be quite merry , he jump about , whistle on a leaf , or sing a song , and think to himself , `` God in heaven must be please to see I so happy . '' this last two day , but on the third the forest would not come to a end , and the tailor have eat up all he bread , so after all he heart sink down a yard deeper . in the meantime he do not lose courage , but rely on God and on he luck . on the third day he lay down in the evening hungry under a tree , and rise again next morning hungry still ; so also pass the fourth day , and when the shoemaker seat himself on a fallen tree and devour he dinner , the tailor be only a looker-on . if he beg for a little piece of bread the other laugh mockingly , and say , `` Thou hast always be so merry , now thou canst try for once what it be to be sad : the bird which sing too early in the morning be strike by the hawk in the evening , '' in short he be pitiless . but on the fifth morning the poor tailor could no longer stand up , and be hardly able to utter one word for weakness ; he cheek be white , and he eye red . then the shoemaker say to he , `` I will give thee a bit of bread to-day , but in return for it , I will put out thy right eye . '' the unhappy tailor who still wish to save he life , could not do it in any other way ; he weep once more with both eye , and then hold they out , and the shoemaker , who have a heart of stone , put out he right eye with a sharp knife . the tailor call to remembrance what he mother have formerly say to he when he have be eat secretly in the pantry . `` eat what one can , and suffer what one must . '' when he have consume he dearly-bought bread , he get on he leg again , forget he misery and comfort himself with the thought that he could always see enough with one eye . but on the sixth day , hunger make itself feel again , and gnaw he almost to the heart . in the evening he fall down by a tree , and on the seventh morning he could not raise himself up for faintness , and death be close at hand . then say the shoemaker , `` I will show mercy and give thee bread once more , but thou shalt not have it for nothing , I shall put out thy other eye for it . '' and now the tailor feel how thoughtless he life have be , pray to God for forgiveness , and say , `` do what thou wilt , I will bear what I must , but remember that we Lord God do not always look on passively , and that a hour will come when the evil deed which thou hast do to I , and which I have not deserve of thee , will be requite . when time be good with I , I share what I have with thee . my trade be of that kind that each stitch must always be exactly like the other . if I no longer have my eye and can sew no more I must go a-begging . at any rate do not leave I here alone when I be blind , or I shall die of hunger . '' the shoemaker , however , who have drive God out of he heart , take the knife and put out he left eye . then he give he a bit of bread to eat , hold out a stick to he , and draw he on behind he . when the sun go down , they get out of the forest , and before they in the open country stand the gallows . thither the shoemaker guide the blind tailor , and then leave he alone and go he way . weariness , pain , and hunger make the wretched man fall asleep , and he sleep the whole night . when day dawn he awake , but know not where he lay . two poor sinner be hang on the gallows , and a crow sit on the head of each of they . then one of the man who have be hang begin to speak , and say , `` Brother , art thou awake ? '' `` yes , I be awake , '' answer the second . `` then I will tell thee something , '' say the first ; `` the dew which this night have fall down over we from the gallows , give every one who wash himself with it he eye again . if blind people do but know this , how many would regain they sight who do not believe that to be possible . '' when the tailor hear that , he take he pocket-handkerchief , press it on the grass , and when it be moist with dew , wash the socket of he eye with it . immediately be fulfil what the man on the gallows have say , and a couple of healthy new eye fill the socket . it be not long before the tailor see the sun rise behind the mountain ; in the plain before he lay the great royal city with its magnificent gate and hundred tower , and the golden ball and cross which be on the spire begin to shine . he could distinguish every leaf on the tree , see the bird which fly past , and the midge which dance in the air . he take a needle out of he pocket , and as he could thread it as well as ever he have do , he heart dance with delight . he throw himself on he knee , thank God for the mercy he have show he , and say he morning prayer . he do not forget also to pray for the poor sinner who be hang there swing against each other in the wind like the pendulum of clock . then he take he bundle on he back and soon forget the pain of heart he have endure , and go on he way singing and whistling . the first thing he meet be a brown foal run about the field at large . he catch it by the mane , and want to spring on it and ride into the town . the foal , however , beg to be set free . `` I be still too young , '' it say , `` even a light tailor such as thou art would break my back in two let I go till I have grow strong . a time may perhaps come when I may reward thee for it . '' `` Run off , '' say the tailor , `` I see thou art still a giddy thing . '' he give it a touch with a switch over its back , whereupon it kick up its hind leg for joy , leap over hedge and ditch , and gallop away into the open country . but the little tailor have eat nothing since the day before . `` the sun to be sure fill my eye , '' say he , `` but the bread do not fill my mouth . the first thing that come across I and be even half edible will have to suffer for it . '' in the meantime a stork step solemnly over the meadow towards he . `` Halt , halt ! '' cry the tailor , and seize he by the leg . `` I do not know if thou art good to eat or not , but my hunger leave I no great choice . I must cut thy head off , and roast thee . '' `` do not do that , '' reply the stork ; `` I be a sacred bird which bring mankind great profit , and no one do I a injury . leave I my life , and I may do thee good in some other way . '' `` well , be off , Cousin Longlegs , '' say the tailor . the stork rise up , let its long leg hang down , and fly gently away . `` what be to be the end of this ? '' say the tailor to himself at last , `` my hunger grow greater and greater , and my stomach more and more empty . whatsoever come in my way now be lose . '' at this moment he see a couple of young duck which be on a pond come swimming towards he . `` you come just at the right moment , '' say he , and lay hold of one of they and be about to wring its neck . on this a old duck which be hide among the reed , begin to scream loudly , and swim to he with open beak , and beg he urgently to spare she dear child . `` Canst thou not imagine , '' say she , `` how thy mother would mourn if any one want to carry thee off , and give thee thy finish stroke ? '' `` only be quiet , '' say the good-tempered tailor , `` thou shalt keep thy child , '' and put the prisoner back into the water . when he turn round , he be stand in front of a old tree which be partly hollow , and see some wild bee fly in and out of it . `` there I shall at once find the reward of my good deed , '' say the tailor , `` the honey will refresh I . '' but the queen-bee come out , threaten he and say , `` if thou touchest my people , and destroyest my nest , we sting shall pierce thy skin like ten thousand red-hot needle . but if thou wilt leave we in peace and go thy way , we will do thee a service for it another time . '' the little tailor see that here also nothing be to be do . `` three dish empty and nothing on the fourth be a bad dinner ! '' he drag himself therefore with he starved-out stomach into the town , and as it be just striking twelve , all be ready-cooked for he in the inn , and he be able to sit down at once to dinner . when he be satisfy he say , `` now I will get to work . '' he go round the town , seek a master , and soon find a good situation . as , however , he have thoroughly learn he trade , it be not long before he become famous , and every one want to have he new coat make by the little tailor , whose importance increase daily . `` I can go no further in skill , '' say he , `` and yet thing improve every day . '' at last the King appoint he court-tailor . but how thing do happen in the world ! on the very same day he former comrade the shoemaker also become court-shoemaker . when the latter catch sight of the tailor , and see that he have once more two healthy eye , he conscience trouble he . `` before he take revenge on I , '' think he to himself , `` I must dig a pit for he . '' he , however , who dig a pit for another , fall into it himself . in the evening when work be over and it have grow dusk , he steal to the King and say , `` Lord King , the tailor be a arrogant fellow and have boast that he will get the gold crown back again which be lose in ancient time . '' `` that would please I very much , '' say the King , and he cause the tailor to be bring before he next morning , and order he to get the crown back again , or to leave the town for ever . `` Oho ! '' think the tailor , `` a rogue give more than he have get . if the surly King want I to do what can be do by no one , I will not wait till morning , but will go out of the town at once , to-day . '' he pack up he bundle , therefore , but when he be without the gate he could not help be sorry to give up he good fortune , and turn he back on the town in which all have go so well with he . he come to the pond where he have make the acquaintance of the duck ; at that very moment the old one whose young one he have spare , be sit there by the shore , plume herself with she beak . she know he again instantly , and ask why he be hang he head so ? `` Thou wilt not be surprise when thou hearest what have befall I , '' reply the tailor , and tell she he fate . `` if that be all , '' say the duck , `` we can help thee . the crown fall into the water , and lie down below at the bottom ; we will soon bring it up again for thee . in the meantime just spread out thy handkerchief on the bank . '' she dive down with she twelve young one , and in five minute she be up again and sit with the crown rest on she wing , and the twelve young one be swim round about and have put they beak under it , and be help to carry it . they swim to the shore and put the crown on the handkerchief . no one can imagine how magnificent the crown be ; when the sun shone on it , it gleam like a hundred thousand carbuncle . the tailor tie he handkerchief together by the four corner , and carry it to the King , who be full of joy , and put a gold chain round the tailor 's neck . when the shoemaker see that one stroke have fail , he contrived a second , and go to the King and say , `` Lord King , the tailor have become insolent again ; he boast that he will copy in wax the whole of the royal palace , with everything that pertain to it , loose or fast , inside and out . '' the King send for the tailor and order he to copy in wax the whole of the royal palace , with everything that pertain to it , movable or immovable , within and without , and if he do not succeed in do this , or if so much as one nail on the wall be want , he should be imprison for he whole life under ground . the tailor thought , `` it get worse and worse ! no one can endure that ? '' and throw he bundle on he back , and go forth . when he come to the hollow tree , he sit down and hang he head . the bee come fly out , and the queen-bee ask he if he have a stiff neck , since he hold he head so awry ? `` Alas , no , '' answer the tailor , `` something quite different weigh I down , '' and he tell she what the King have demand of he . the bee begin to buzz and hum amongst themselves , and the queen-bee say , `` just go home again , but come back to-morrow at this time , and bring a large sheet with you , and then all will be well . '' so he turn back again , but the bee fly to the royal palace and straight into it through the open window , creep round about into every corner , and inspect everything most carefully . then they hurry back and model the palace in wax with such rapidity that any one look on would have think it be grow before he eye . by the evening all be ready , and when the tailor come next morning , the whole of the splendid building be there , and not one nail in the wall or tile of the roof be want , and it be delicate withal , and white as snow , and smell sweet as honey . the tailor wrap it carefully in he cloth and take it to the King , who could not admire it enough , place it in he largest hall , and in return for it present the tailor with a large stone house . the shoemaker , however , do not give up , but go for the third time to the King and say , `` Lord King , it have come to the tailor 's ear that no water will spring up in the court-yard of the castle , and he have boast that it shall rise up in the midst of the court-yard to a man 's height and be clear as crystal . '' then the King order the tailor to be bring before he and say , `` if a stream of water do not rise in my court-yard by to-morrow as thou hast promise , the executioner shall in that very place make thee shorter by the head . '' the poor tailor do not take long to think about it , but hurry out to the gate , and because this time it be a matter of life and death to he , tear roll down he face . Whilst he be thus go forth full of sorrow , the foal to which he have formerly give its liberty , and which have now become a beautiful chestnut horse , come leap towards he . `` the time have come , '' it say to the tailor , `` when I can repay thee for thy good deed . I know already what be needful to thee , but thou shalt soon have help ; get on I , my back can carry two such as thou . '' the tailor 's courage come back to he ; he jump up in one bind , and the horse go full speed into the town , and right up to the court-yard of the castle . it gallop as quick as lightning thrice round it , and at the third time it fall violently down . at the same instant , however , there be a terrific clap of thunder , a fragment of earth in the middle of the court-yard spring like a cannon-ball into the air , and over the castle , and directly after it a jet of water rise as high as a man on horseback , and the water be as pure as crystal , and the sunbeam begin to dance on it . when the King see that he arise in amazement , and go and embrace the tailor in the sight of all man . but good fortune do not last long . the King have daughter in plenty , one still prettier than the other , but he have no son . so the malicious shoemaker betook himself for the fourth time to the King , and say , `` Lord King , the tailor have not give up he arrogance . he have now boast that if he like , he could cause a son to be bring to the Lord king through the air . '' the King command the tailor to be summon , and say , `` if thou causest a son to be bring to I within nine day , thou shalt have my eldest daughter to wife . '' `` the reward be indeed great , '' think the little tailor ; `` one would willingly do something for it , but the cherry grow too high for I , if I climb for they , the bough will break beneath I , and I shall fall . '' he go home , seat himself cross-legged on he work-table , and think over what be to be do . `` it can not be manage , '' cry he at last , `` I will go away ; after all I can not live in peace here . '' he tie up he bundle and hurry away to the gate . when he get to the meadow , he perceive he old friend the stork , who be walk backwards and forwards like a philosopher . sometimes he stand still , take a frog into close consideration , and at length swallow it down . the stork come to he and greet he . `` I see , '' he begin , `` that thou hast thy pack on thy back . why art thou leave the town ? '' the tailor tell he what the King have require of he , and how he could not perform it , and lament he misfortune . `` do not let thy hair grow gray about that , '' say the stork , `` I will help thee out of thy difficulty . for a long time now , I have carry the child in swaddling-clothes into the town , so for once in a way I can fetch a little prince out of the well . go home and be easy . in nine day from this time repair to the royal palace , and there will I come . '' the little tailor go home , and at the appointed time be at the castle . it be not long before the stork come fly thither and tap at the window . the tailor open it , and cousin longleg come carefully in , and walk with solemn step over the smooth marble pavement . he have , moreover , a baby in he beak that be as lovely as a angel , and stretch out its little hand to the Queen . the stork lay it in she lap , and she caress it and kiss it , and be beside herself with delight . before the stork fly away , he take he travel bag off he back and hand it over to the Queen . in it there be little paper parcel with color sweetmeat , and they be divide amongst the little princess . the eldest , however , have none of they , but get the merry tailor for a husband . `` it seem to I , '' say he , `` just as if I have win the highest prize . my mother be if right after all , she always say that whoever trust in God and only have good luck , can never fail . '' the shoemaker have to make the shoe in which the little tailor dance at the wedding festival , after which he be command to quit the town for ever . the road to the forest lead he to the gallows . worn out with anger , rage , and the heat of the day , he throw himself down . when he have close he eye and be about to sleep , the two crow fly down from the head of the man who be hang there , and peck he eye out . in he madness he run into the forest and must have die there of hunger , for no one have ever either see he again or hear of he .