89 the Goose-Girl BrothersS Grimm THERE be once upon a time a old Queen whose husband have be dead for many year , and she have a beautiful daughter . when the princess grow up she be betroth to a prince who live at a great distance . when the time come for she to be marry , and she have to journey forth into the distant kingdom , the age Queen pack up for she many costly vessel of silver and gold , and trinket also of gold and silver ; and cup and jewel , in short , everything which appertain to a royal dowry , for she love she child with all she heart . she likewise send she maid in wait , who be to ride with she , and hand she over to the bridegroom , and each have a horse for the journey , but the horse of the King 's daughter be call Falada , and could speak . so when the hour of parting have come , the age mother go into she bedroom , take a small knife and cut she finger with it until it bleed , then she hold a white handkerchief to it into which she let three drop of blood fall , give it to she daughter and say , `` dear child , preserve this carefully , it will be of service to you on you way . '' so they take a sorrowful leave of each other ; the princess put the piece of cloth in she bosom , mount she horse , and then go away to she bridegroom . after she have ride for a while she feel a burning thirst , and say to she waiting-maid , `` Dismount , and take my cup which thou hast bring with thee for I , and get I some water from the stream , for I should like to drink . '' `` if you be thirsty , '' say the waiting-maid , `` get off you horse yourself , and lie down and drink out of the water , I do not choose to be you servant . '' so in she great thirst the princess alight , bent down over the water in the stream and drank , and be not allow to drink out of the golden cup . then she say , `` ah , Heaven ! '' and the three drop of blood answer , `` if thy mother know , she heart would break . '' but the King 's daughter be humble , say nothing , and mount she horse again . she ride some mile further , but the day be warm , the sun scorch she , and she be thirsty once more , and when they come to a stream of water , she again cry to she waiting-maid , `` Dismount , and give I some water in my golden cup , '' for she have long ago forget the girl 's ill word . but the waiting-maid say still more haughtily , `` if you wish to drink , drink as you can , I do not choose to be you maid . '' then in she great thirst the King 's daughter alight , bent over the flowing stream , weep and say , `` ah , Heaven ! '' and the drop of blood again reply , `` if thy mother know this , she heart would break . '' and as she be thus drinking and lean right over the stream , the handkerchief with the three drop of blood fall out of she bosom , and float away with the water without she observe it , so great be she trouble . the waiting-maid , however , have see it , and she rejoice to think that she have now power over the bride , for since the princess have lose the drop of blood , she have become weak and powerless . so now when she want to mount she horse again , the one that be call Falada , the waiting-maid say , `` Falada be more suitable for I , and my nag will do for thee '' and the princess have to be content with that . then the waiting-maid , with many hard word , bid the princess exchange she royal apparel for she own shabby clothes ; and at length she be compel to swear by the clear sky above she , that she would not say one word of this to any one at the royal court , and if she have not take this oath she would have be kill on the spot . but Falada see all this , and observe it well . the waiting-maid now mount Falada , and the true bride the bad horse , and thus they travel onward , until at length they enter the royal palace . there be great rejoicing over she arrival , and the prince spring forward to meet she , lift the waiting-maid from she horse , and think she be he consort . she be conduct upstairs , but the real princess be leave standing below . then the old King look out of the window and see she standing in the courtyard , and how dainty and delicate and beautiful she be , and instantly go to the royal apartment , and ask the bride about the girl she have with she who be stand down below in the courtyard , and who she be ? `` I pick she up on my way for a companion ; give the girl something to work at , that she may not stand idle . '' but the old King have no work for she , and know of none , so he say , `` I have a little boy who tend the goose , she may help he . '' the boy be call Conrad , and the true bride have to help he to tend the goose . soon afterwards the false bride say to the young King , `` dearest husband , I beg you to do I a favor . '' he answer , `` I will do so most willingly . '' `` then send for the knacker , and have the head of the horse on which I ride here cut off , for it vex I on the way . '' in reality , she be afraid that the horse might tell how she have behave to the King 's daughter . then she succeed in make the King promise that it should be do , and the faithful Falada be to die ; this come to the ear of the real princess , and she secretly promise to pay the knacker a piece of gold if he would perform a small service for she . there be a great dark-looking gateway in the town , through which morning and evening she have to pass with the goose : would he be so good as to nail up Falada 's head on it , so that she might see he again , more than once . the knacker 's man promise to do that , and cut off the head , and nail it fast beneath the dark gateway . early in the morning , when she and Conrad drive out they flock beneath this gateway , she say in passing , `` Alas , Falada , hang there ! '' then the head answer , `` Alas , young Queen , how ill you fare ! if this you tender mother know , she heart would surely break in two . '' then they go still further out of the town , and drive they goose into the country . and when they have come to the meadow , she sit down and unbind she hair which be like pure gold , and Conrad see it and delighted in its brightness , and want to pluck out a few hair . then she say , `` blow , blow , thou gentle wind , I say , Blow Conrad 's little hat away , and make he chase it here and there , until I have braid all my hair , and bind it up again . '' and there come such a violent wind that it blow Conrad 's hat far away across country , and he be force to run after it . when he come back she have finish comb she hair and be put it up again , and he could not get any of it . then Conrad be angry , and would not speak to she , and thus they watch the goose until the evening , and then they go home . next day when they be drive the goose out through the dark gateway , the maiden say , `` Alas , Falada , hang there ! '' Falada answer , `` Alas , young Queen , how ill you fare ! if this you tender mother know , she heart would surely break in two . '' and she sit down again in the field and begin to comb out she hair , and Conrad run and try to clutch it , so she say in haste , `` blow , blow , thou gentle wind , I say , Blow Conrad 's little hat away , and make he chase it here and there , until I have braid all my hair , and bind it up again . '' then the wind blow , and blow he little hat off he head and far away , and Conrad be force to run after it , and when he come back , she hair have be put up a long time , and he could get none of it , and so they look after they goose till evening come . but in the evening after they have get home , Conrad go to the old King , and say , `` I will not tend the goose with that girl any longer ! '' `` why not ? '' inquire the age King . `` oh , because she vex I the whole day long . '' then the age King command he to relate what it be that she do to he . and Conrad say , `` in the morning when we pass beneath the dark gateway with the flock , there be a sorry horse 's head on the wall , and she say to it , `` Alas , Falada , hang there ! '' and the head reply , `` Alas , young Queen how ill you fare ! if this you tender mother know , she heart would surely break in two . '' and Conrad go on to relate what happen on the goose pasture , and how when there he have to chase he hat . the age King command he to drive he flock out again next day , and as soon as morning come , he place himself behind the dark gateway , and hear how the maiden speak to the head of Falada , and then he too go into the country , and hide himself in the thicket in the meadow . there he soon see with he own eye the goose-girl and the goose-boy bring they flock , and how after a while she sit down and unplait she hair , which shine with radiance . and soon she say , `` blow , blow , thou gentle wind , I say , Blow Conrad 's little hat away , and make he chase it here and there , until I have braid all my hair , and bind it up again . '' then come a blast of wind and carry off Conrad 's hat , so that he have to run far away , while the maiden quietly go on comb and plait she hair , all of which the King observe . then , quite unseen , he go away , and when the goose-girl come home in the evening , he call she aside , and ask why she do all these thing . `` I may not tell you that , and I dare not lament my sorrow to any human being , for I have swear not to do so by the heaven which be above I ; if I have not do that , I should have lose my life . '' he urge she and leave she no peace , but he could draw nothing from she . then say he , `` if thou wilt not tell I anything , tell thy sorrow to the iron-stove there , '' and he go away . then she creep into the iron-stove , and begin to weep and lament , and empty she whole heart , and say , `` here be I desert by the whole world , and yet I be a King 's daughter , and a false waiting-maid have by force bring I to such a pass that I have be compel to put off my royal apparel , and she have take my place with my bridegroom , and I have to perform menial service as a goose-girl . if my mother do but know that , she heart would break . '' the age King , however , be stand outside by the pipe of the stove , and be listen to what she say , and hear it . then he come back again , and bid she come out of the stove . and royal garment be place on she , and it be marvellous how beautiful she be ! the age King summon he son , and reveal to he that he have get the false bride who be only a waiting-maid , but that the true one be stand there , as the sometime goose-girl . the young King rejoice with all he heart when he see she beauty and youth , and a great feast be make ready to which all the people and all good friend be invite . at the head of the table sit the bridegroom with the King 's daughter at one side of he , and the waiting-maid on the other , but the waiting-maid be blind , and do not recognize the princess in she dazzling array . when they have eat and drunk , and be merry , the age King ask the waiting-maid as a riddle , what a person deserve who have behave in such and such a way to she master , and at the same time relate the whole story , and ask what sentence such a one merit ? then the false bride say , `` she deserve no better fate than to be strip entirely naked , and put in a barrel which be stud inside with pointed nail , and two white horse should be harness to it , which will drag she along through one street after another , till she be dead . '' `` it be thou , '' say the age King , `` and thou hast pronounced thine own sentence , and thus shall it be do unto thee . '' and when the sentence have be carry out , the young King marry he true bride , and both of they reign over they kingdom in peace and happiness .