the THORNY ROAD of HONOUR H. C. Andersen An old story yet live of the `` Thorny Road of Honour , '' of a marksman , who indeed attain to rank and office , but only after a lifelong and weary strife against difficulty . who have not , in reading this story , thought of he own strife , and of he own numerous `` difficulty ? '' the story be very closely akin to reality ; but still it have its harmonious explanation here on earth , while reality often point beyond the confines of life to the region of eternity . the history of the world be like a magic lantern that display to we , in light picture upon the dark ground of the present , how the benefactor of mankind , the martyr of genius , wander along the thorny road of honor . from all period , and from every country , these shine picture display themselves to we ; each only appear for a few moment , but each represent a whole life , sometimes a whole age , with its conflict and victory . let we contemplate here and there one of the company of martyr -- the company which will receive new member until the world itself shall pass away . we look down upon a crowded amphitheatre . out of the `` cloud '' of Aristophanes , satire and humor be pour down in stream upon the audience ; on the stage socrate , the most remarkable man in Athens , he who have be the shield and defense of the people against the thirty tyrant , be hold up mentally and bodily to ridicule -- SocratesS , who save Alcibiades and Xenophon in the turmoil of battle , and whose genius soar far above the god of the ancient . he himself be present ; he have rise from the spectator 's bench , and have step forward , that the laughing AtheniansS may well appreciate the likeness between himself and the caricature on the stage : there he stand before they , tower high above they all . Thou juicy , green , poisonous hemlock , throw thy shadow over Athens -- not thou , olive tree of fame ! seven city contend for the honor of give birth to Homer -- that be to say , they contend after he death ! let we look at he as he be in he lifetime . he wander on foot through the city , and recite he verse for a livelihood ; the thought for the morrow turn he hair gray ! he , the great seer , be blind , and painfully pursue he way -- the sharp thorn tear the mantle of the king of poet . he song yet live , and through that alone live all the hero and god of antiquity . -lrb-B- illustration : the king of POETS . aaaaa -rrb-B- aaa one picture after another spring up from the east , from the west , far remove from each other in time and place , and yet each one form a portion of the thorny road of honor , on which the thistle indeed display a flower , but only to adorn the grave . the camel pass along under the palm tree ; they be richly laden with indigo and other treasure of price , send by the ruler of the land to he whose song be the delight of the people , the fame of the country : he whom envy and falsehood have drive into exile have be find , and the caravan approach the little town in which he have take refuge . a poor corpse be carry out of the town-gate , and the funeral procession cause the caravan to halt . the dead man be he whom they have be send to seek -- Firdusi -- who have wander the thorny road of honor even to the end . the African , with blunt feature , thick lip , and woolly hair , sit on the marble step of the palace in the capital of Portugal , and beg : he be the submissive slave of Camoens , and but for he , and for the copper coin throw to he by the passer by , he master , the poet of the `` Lusiad , '' would die of hunger . now , a costly monument mark the grave of Camoens . there be a new picture . behind the iron grate a man appear , pale as death , with long unkempt beard . `` I have make a discovery , '' he say , `` the greatest that have be make for century ; and they have keep I lock up here for more than twenty year ! '' `` who be the man ? `` a madman , '' reply the keeper of the madhouse . `` what whimsical idea these lunatic have ! he imagine that one can propel thing by means of steam . it be Solomon de Cares , the discoverer of the power of steam , whose theory , express in dark word , be not understand by Richelieu -- and he die in the madhouse ! '' here stand Columbus , whom the street boy use once to follow and jeer , because he want to discover a new world -- and he have discover it . shout of joy greet he from the breast of all , and the clash of bell sound to celebrate he triumphant return ; but the clash of the bell of envy soon drown the other . the discoverer of a world , he who lift the american gold land from the sea , and give it to he king -- he be reward with iron chain . he wish that these chain may be place in he coffin , for they witness of the world , and of the way in which a man 's contemporary reward good service . one picture after another come crowding on ; the thorny path of honor and of fame be over-filled . here in dark night sit the man who measure the mountain in the moon ; he who force he way out into the endless space , among star and planet ; he , the mighty man who understand the spirit of nature , and feel the earth move beneath he foot -- Galileo . Blind and deaf he sit -- a old man thrust through with the spear of suffering , and amid the torment of neglect , scarcely able to lift he foot -- that foot with which , in the anguish of he soul , when man deny the truth , he stamp upon the ground with the exclamation , '' _ yet _ it move ! '' here stand a woman of childlike mind , yet full of faith and inspiration ; she carry the banner in front of the combate army , and bring victory and salvation to she fatherland . the sound of shouting arise , and the pile flame up : they be burn the witch , Joan of Arc . Yes , and a future century jeer at the white lily . Voltaire , the satyr of human intellect , write '' _ La Pucelle _ . '' at the _ thing _ or assembly at Viborg , the danish noble burn the law of the king -- they flame up high , illuminate the period and the lawgiver , and throw a glory into the dark prison tower , where a old man be grow gray and bent . with he finger he mark out a groove in the stone table . it be the popular king who sit there , once the ruler of three kingdom , the friend of the citizen and the peasant : it be christian the second . enemy write he history . let we remember he improvement of seven and twenty year , if we can not forget he crime . a ship sail away , quit the danish shore ; a man lean against the mast , cast a last glance towards the Island Hueen . it be Tycho Brahe . he raise the name of Denmark to the star , and be reward with injury , loss , and sorrow . he be go to a strange country . `` the vault of heaven be above I everywhere , '' he say , `` and what do I want more ? '' and away sail the famous Dane , the astronomer , to live honor and free in a strange land . `` Ay , free , if only from the unbearable suffering of the body ! '' come in a sigh through time , and strike upon we ear . what a picture ! Griffenfeldt , a danish Prometheus , bind to the rocky island of Munkholm . we be in America , on the margin of one of the largest river ; a innumerable crowd have gather , for it be say that a ship be to sail against wind and weather , bidding defiance to the element ; the man who think he can solve the problem be name Robert Fulton . the ship begin its passage , but suddenly it stop . the crowd begin to laugh and whistle and hiss -- the very father of the man whistle with the rest . `` conceit ! foolery ! '' be the cry . `` it have happen just as he deserve : put the crack-brain under lock and key ! '' then suddenly a little nail break , which have stop the machine for a few moment ; and now the wheel turn again , the float break the force of the water , and the ship continue its course -- and the beam of the steam-engine shorten the distance between far land from hour into minute . O human race , canst thou grasp the happiness of such a minute of consciousness , this penetration of the soul by its mission , the moment in which all dejection , and every wound -- even those cause by own fault -- be change into health and strength and clearness -- when discord be convert to harmony -- the minute in which man seem to recognize the manifestation of the heavenly grace in one man , and feel how this one impart it to all ? thus the thorny path of honor show itself as a glory , surround the earth with its beam : thrice happy he who be choose to be a wanderer there , and , without merit of he own , to be place between the builder of the bridge and the earth , between Providence and the human race ! on mighty wing the spirit of history float through the age , and show -- give courage and comfort , and awaken gentle thought -- on the dark nightly background , but in gleam picture , the thorny path of honor ; which do not , like a fairy tale , end in brilliancy and joy here on earth , but stretch out beyond all time , even into eternity !