the adventure of KINTARO , the GOLDEN BOY . Japanese Writer Long , long ago there live in Kyoto a brave soldier name Kintoki . now he fall in love with a beautiful lady and marry she . not long after this , through the malice of some of he friend , he fall into disgrace at Court and be dismiss . this misfortune so preyed upon he mind that he do not long survive he dismissal -- he die , leave behind he he beautiful young wife to face the world alone . fear she husband 's enemy , she flee to the Ashigara MountainsS as soon as she husband be dead , and there in the lonely forest where no one ever come except woodcutter , a little boy be bear to she . she call he Kintaro or the Golden Boy . now the remarkable thing about this child be he great strength , and as he grow older he grow stronger and stronger , so that by the time he be eight year of age he be able to cut down tree as quickly as the woodcutter . then he mother give he a large ax , and he use to go out in the forest and help the woodcutter , who call he `` wonder-child , '' and he mother the `` Old Nurse of the MountainsS , '' for they do not know she high rank . another favorite pastime of Kintaro 's be to smash up rock and stone . you can imagine how strong he be ! quite unlike other boy , Kintaro , grow up all alone in the mountain wild , and as he have no companion he make friend with all the animal and learn to understand they and to speak they strange talk . by degree they all grow quite tame and look upon Kintaro as they master , and he use they as he servant and messenger . but he special retainer be the bear , the deer , the monkey and the hare . the bear often bring she cub for Kintaro to romp with , and when she come to take they home kintaro would get on she back and have a ride to she cave . he be very fond of the deer too , and would often put he arm round the creature 's neck to show that its long horn do not frighten he . Great be the fun they all have together . one day , as usual , Kintaro go up into the mountain , follow by the bear , the deer , the monkey , and the hare . after walk for some time up hill and down dale and over rough road , they suddenly come out upon a wide and grassy plain cover with pretty wild flower . here , indeed , be a nice place where they could all have a good romp together . the deer rub he horn against a tree for pleasure , the monkey scratch he back , the hare smooth he long ear , and the bear give a grunt of satisfaction . Kintaro say , `` here be a place for a good game . what do you all say to a wrestling match ? '' the bear be the biggest and the oldest , answer for the other : `` that will be great fun , '' say she . `` I be the strongest animal , so I will make the platform for the wrestler ; '' and she set to work with a will to dig up the earth and to pat it into shape . `` all right , '' say Kintaro , `` I will look on while you all wrestle with each other . I shall give a prize to the one who win in each round . '' `` what fun ! we shall all try to get the prize , '' say the bear . the deer , the monkey and the hare set to work to help the bear raise the platform on which they be all to wrestle . when this be finish , Kintaro cry out : `` now begin ! the monkey and the hare shall open the sport and the deer shall be umpire . now , Mr. deer , you be to be umpire ! '' `` he , he ! '' answer the deer . `` I will be umpire . now , Mr. Monkey and Mr. Hare , if you be both ready , please walk out and take you place on the platform . '' then the monkey and the hare both hop out , quickly and nimbly , to the wrestling platform . the deer , as umpire , stand between the two and call out : `` red-back ! red-back ! '' -lrb-B- this to the monkey , who have a red back in Japan -rrb-B- . `` be you ready ? '' then he turn to the hare : `` long-ears ! long-ears ! be you ready ? '' both the little wrestler face each other while the deer raise a leaf on high as signal . when he drop the leaf the monkey and the hare rush upon each other , cry `` Yoisho , yoisho ! '' while the monkey and the hare wrestle , the deer call out encouragingly or shout warning to each of they as the hare or the monkey push each other near the edge of the platform and be in danger of fall over . `` red-back ! red-back ! stand you ground ! '' call out the deer . `` long-ears ! long-ears ! be strong , be strong -- do not let the monkey beat you ! '' grunt the bear . so the monkey and the hare , encourage by they friend , try they very hardest to beat each other . the hare at last gain on the monkey . the monkey seem to trip up , and the hare give he a good push send he fly off the platform with a bind . the poor monkey sit up rub he back , and he face be very long as he scream angrily . `` oh , oh ! how my back hurt -- my back hurt I ! '' see the monkey in this plight on the ground , the deer hold he leaf on high say : `` this round be finish -- the hare have win . '' Kintaro then open he luncheon box and take out a rice-dumpling , give it to the hare say : `` here be you prize , and you have earn , it well ! '' now the monkey get up look very cross , and as they say in Japan `` he stomach stand up , '' for he feel that he have not be fairly beaten . so he say to Kintaro and the other who be stand by : `` I have not be fairly beaten . my foot slip and I tumble . please give I another chance and let the hare wrestle with I for another round . '' then Kintaro consent , the hare and the monkey begin to wrestle again . now , as every one know , the monkey be a cunning animal by nature , and he make up he mind to get the best of the hare this time if it be possible . to do this , he think that the best and surest way would be to get hold of the hare 's long ear . this he soon manage to do . the hare be quite throw off he guard by the pain of have he long ear pull so hard , and the monkey seize he opportunity at last , catch hold of one of the hare 's leg and send he sprawl in the middle of the dais . the monkey be now the victor and receive , a rice-dumpling from Kintaro , which please he so much that he quite forget he sore back . the deer now come up and ask the hare if he feel ready for another round , and if so whether be would try a round with he , and the hare consent , they both stand up to wrestle . the bear come forward as umpire . the deer with long horn and the hare with long ear , it must have be a amusing sight to those who watch this queer match . suddenly the deer go down on one of he knee , and the bear with the leaf on high declare he beat . in this way , sometimes the one , sometimes the other , conquer , the little party amuse themselves till they be tire . at last Kintaro get up and say : `` this be enough for to-day . what a nice place we have find for wrestling ; let we come again to-morrow . now , we will all go home . come along ! '' so say , Kintaro lead the way while the animal follow . after walk some little distance they come out on the bank of a river flow through a valley . Kintaro and he four furry friend stand and look about for some means of cross . Bridge there be none . the river rush `` don , don '' on its way . all the animal look serious , wonder how they could cross the stream and get home that evening . Kintaro , however , say : `` wait a moment . I will make a good bridge for you all in a few minute . '' the bear , the deer , the monkey and the hare look at he to see what he would do now . Kintaro go from one tree to another that grow along the river bank . at last he stop in front of a very large tree that be grow at the water 's edge . he take hold of the trunk and pull it with all he might , once , twice , thrice ! at the third pull , so great be Kintaro 's strength that the root give way , and `` meri , meri '' -lrb-B- crash , crash -rrb-B- , over fall the tree , form a excellent bridge across the stream . `` there , '' say Kintaro , `` what do you think of my bridge ? it be quite safe , so follow I , '' and he step across first . the four animal follow . never have they see any one so strong before , and they all exclaim : `` how strong he be ! how strong he be ! '' while all this be go on by the river a woodcutter , who happen to be stand on a rock overlook the stream , have see all that pass beneath he . he watch with great surprise Kintaro and he animal companion . he rub he eye to be sure that he be not dream when he see this boy pull over a tree by the root and throw it across the stream to form a bridge . the woodcutter , for such he seem to be by he dress , marvel at all he see , and say to himself : `` this be no ordinary child . whose son can he be ? I will find out before this day be do . '' he hasten after the strange party and cross the bridge behind they . Kintaro know nothing of all this , and little guess that he be be follow . on reach the other side of the river he and the animal separate , they to they lair in the wood and he to he mother , who be wait for he . as soon as he enter the cottage , which stand like a matchbox in the heart of the pine-woods , he go to greet he mother , say : `` Okkasan -lrb-B- mother -rrb-B- , here I be ! '' `` O , Kimbo ! '' say he mother with a bright smile , glad to see she boy home safe after the long day . `` how late you be to-day . I fear that something have happen to you . where have you be all the time ? '' `` I take my four friend , the bear , the deer , the monkey , and the hare , up into the hill , and there I make they try a wrestling match , to see which be the strongest . we all enjoy the sport , and be go to the same place to-morrow to have another match . '' `` now tell I who be the strongest of all ? '' ask he mother , pretend not to know . `` oh , mother , '' say Kintaro , `` do not you know that I be the strongest ? there be no need for I to wrestle with any of they . '' `` but next to you then , who be the strongest ? '' `` the bear come next to I in strength , '' answer Kintaro . `` and after the bear ? '' ask he mother again . `` next to the bear it be not easy to say which be the strongest , for the deer , the monkey , and the hare all seem to be as strong as each other , '' say Kintaro . suddenly Kintaro and he mother be startle by a voice from outside . `` listen to I , little boy ! next time you go , take this old man with you to the wrestling match . he would like to join the sport too ! '' it be the old woodcutter who have follow Kintaro from the river . he slip off he clog and enter the cottage . yama-uba and she son be both take by surprise . they look at the intruder wonderingly and see that he be some one they have never see before . `` who be you ? '' they both exclaim . then the woodcutter laugh and say : `` it do not matter who I be yet , but let we see who have the strongest arm -- this boy or myself ? '' then Kintaro , who have live all he life in the forest , answer the old man without any ceremony , say : `` we will have a try if you wish it , but you must not be angry whoever be beat . '' then Kintaro and the woodcutter both put out they right arm and grasp each other 's hand . for a long time Kintaro and the old man wrestle together in this way , each try to bend the other 's arm , but the old man be very strong , and the strange pair be evenly match . at last the old man desist , declare it a draw game . `` you be , indeed , a very strong child . there be few man who can boast of the strength of my right arm ! '' say the woodcutter . `` I see you first on the hank of the river a few hour ago , when you pull up that large tree to make a bridge across the torrent . hardly able to believe what I see I follow you home . you strength of arm , which I have just try , prove what I see this afternoon . when you be full-grown you will surely be the strongest man in all Japan . it be a pity that you be hide away in these wild mountain . '' then he turn to Kintaro 's mother : `` and you , mother , have you no thought of take you child to the capital , and of teach he to carry a sword as befit a samurai -lrb-B- a japanese knight -rrb-B- ? '' `` you be very kind to take so much interest in my son . '' reply the mother ; `` but he be as you see , wild and uneducated , and I fear it would be very difficult to do as you say . because of he great strength as a infant I hide he away in this unknown part of the country , for he hurt every one that come near he . I have often wish that I could , one day , see my boy a knight wear two sword , but as we have no influential friend to introduce we at the Capital , I fear my hope will never come true . '' `` you need not trouble yourself about that . to tell you the truth I be no woodcutter ! I be one of the great general of Japan . my name be Sadamitsu , and I be a vassal of the powerful Lord Minamoto-no - Raiko . he order I to go round the country and look for boy who give promise of remarkable strength , so that they may be train as soldier for he army . I think that I could best do this by assume the disguise of a woodcutter . by good fortune , I have thus unexpectedly come across you son . now if you really wish he to be a SAMURAI -lrb-B- a knight -rrb-B- , I will take he and present he to the Lord Raiko as a candidate for he service . what do you say to this ? '' as the kind general gradually unfold he plan the mother 's heart be fill with a great joy . she see that here be a wonderful chance of the one wish of she life be fulfil -- that of see Kintaro a SAMURAI before she die . bow she head to the ground , she reply : `` I will then intrust my son to you if you really mean what you say . '' Kintaro have all this time be sit by he mother 's side listening to what they say . when he mother finish speaking , he exclaim : `` oh , joy ! joy ! I be to go with the general and one day I shall be a