the puppet showman . H. C. Andersen on board the steamer be a elderly man with such a merry face that , if it do not belie he , he must have be the happiest fellow in creation . and , indeed , he declare he be the happiest man ; I hear it out of he own mouth . he be a Dane , a travel theater director . he have all he company with he in a large box , for he be proprietor of a puppet-show . he inborn cheerfulness , he say , have be _ purify _ by a Polytechnic candidate , and the experiment have make he completely happy . I do not at first understand all this , but afterwards he explain the whole story to I , and here it be . he tell I : -lrb-B- illustration : the animated puppet . aaaaa -rrb-B- aaa `` it be in the little town of Slagelse I give a representation in the hall of the posting-house , and have a brilliant audience , entirely a juvenile one , with the exception of two respectable matron . all at once a person in black , of student-like appearance , come into the room and sit down ; he laugh aloud at the tell part , and applaud quite appropriately . that be quite a unusual spectator for I ! I feel anxious to know who he be , and I hear he be a candidate from the Polytechnic Institution in Copenhagen , who have be send out to instruct the folk in the province . punctually at eight o'clock my performance close ; for child must go early to bed , and a manager must consult the convenience of he public . at nine o'clock the candidate commence he lecture , with experiment , and now I form part of _ he _ audience . it be wonderful to hear and to see . the greater part of it be beyond my scope ; but still it make I think that if we man can find out so much , we must be surely intend to last longer than the little span until we be hide away in the earth . they be quite miracle in a small way that he show , and yet everything flow as naturally as water ! at the time of Moses and the prophet such a man would have be receive among the sage of the land ; in the middle age they would have burn he at a stake . all night long I could not go to sleep . and the next evening , when I give another performance , and the candidate be again present , I feel fairly overflow with humor . I once hear from a player that when he act a lover he always think of one particular lady among the audience ; he only play for she , and forget all the rest of the house ; and now the Polytechnic candidate be my ` she , ' my only auditor , for whom alone I play . and when the performance be over , all the puppet be call before the curtain , and the Polytechnic candidate invite I into he room to take a glass of wine ; and he speak of my comedy , and I of he science ; and I believe we be both equally pleased . but I have the best of it , for there be much in what he do of which he could not always give I a explanation . for instance , that a piece of iron that fall through a spiral should become magnetic . now , how do that happen ? the spirit come upon it ; but whence do it come ? it be as with people in this world ; they be make to tumble through the spiral of this world , and the spirit come upon they , and there stand a Napoleon , or a Luther , or a person of that kind . ` the whole world be a series of miracle , ' say the candidate ; ` but we be so accustomed to they that we call they every-day matter . ' and he go on explain thing to I until my skull seem lift up over my brain , and I declare that if I be not a old fellow I would at once visit the Polytechnic Institution , that I might learn to look at the sunny side of the world , though I be one of the happiest of man . ` one of the happiest ! ' say the candidate , and he seem to take real pleasure in it . ` be you happy ? ' ` yes , ' I reply , ` and they welcome I in all the town where I come with my company ; but I certainly have _ one _ wish , which sometimes lie like lead , like a Alp , upon my good humor : I should like to become a real theatrical manager , the director of a real troupe of man and woman ! ' ` I see , ' he say , ` you would like to have life breathe into you puppet , so that they might be real actor , and you they director ; and would you then be quite happy ? ' he do not believe it ; but I believe it , and we talk it over all manner of way without come any nearer to a agreement ; but we clank we glass together , and the wine be excellent . there be some magic in it , or I should certainly have become tipsy . but that do not happen ; I retain my clear view of thing , and somehow there be sunshine in the room , and sunshine beam out of the eye of the Polytechnic candidate . it make I think of the old story of the god , in they eternal youth , when they still wander upon earth and pay visit to the mortal ; and I say so to he , and he smile , and I could have swear he be one of the ancient god in disguise , or that , at any rate , he belong to the family ! and certainly he must have be something of the kind , for my highest wish be to have be fulfil , the puppet be to be gifted with life , and I be to be director of a real company . we drink to my success and clink we glass . he pack all my doll into a box , bind the box on my back , and then let I fall through a spiral . I hear myself tumble , and then I be lie on the floor -- I know that quite well -- and the whole company spring out of the box . the spirit have come upon all of we : all the puppet have become distinguished artist , so they say themselves , and I be the director . all be ready for the first representation ; the whole company want to speak to I , and the public also . the dancing lady say the house would fall down if she do not keep it up by stand on one leg ; for she be the great genius , and beg to be treat as such . the lady who act the queen wish to be treat off the stage as a queen , or else she should get out of practice . the man who be only employ to deliver a letter give himself just as many air as the first lover , for he declare the little one be just as important as the great one , and that all be of equal consequence , consider as a artistic whole . the hero would only play part compose of nothing but point ; for those bring he down the applause . the prima donna would only play in a red light ; for she declare that a blue one do not suit she complexion . it be like a company of fly in a bottle ; and I be in the bottle with they , for I be the director . my breath stop and my head whirl round ; I be as miserable as a man can be . it be quite a novel kind of man among whom I now find myself . I only wish I have they all in the box again , and that I have never be a director at all ; so I tell they roundly that after all they be nothing but puppet ; and then they kill I . I find myself lie on my bed in my room ; and how I get there , and how I get away at all from the Polytechnic candidate , he may perhaps know , for I do not . the moon shone upon the floor where the box lay open , and the doll all in a confusion together -- great and small all scatter about ; but I be not idle . out of bed I jump , and into the box they have all to go , some on they head , some on they foot , and I shut down the lid and seat myself upon the box . ` now you 'll just have to stay there , ' say I , ` and I shall beware how I wish you flesh and blood again . ' I feel quite light , my good humor have come back , and I be the happiest of mortal . the Polytechnic student have fully purify I . I sit as happy as a king , and go to sleep on the box . the next morning -- strictly speak it be noon , for I sleep wonderfully late that day -- I be still sit there , happy and conscious that my former wish have be a foolish one . I inquire for the Polytechnic candidate , but he be go , like the greek and roman god ; and from that time I have be the happiest of man . I be a happy director : none of my company ever grumble , nor my public either , for they be always merry . I can put my piece together just as I please . I take out of every comedy what please I best , and no one be angry at it . Pieces that be neglect now-a-days by the great public , but which it use to run after thirty year ago , and at which it use to cry till the tear run down its cheek , these piece I now take up ; I put they before the little one , and the little one cry just as papa and mamma use to cry thirty year ago ; but I shorten they , for the youngster do not like a long palaver ; what they want be something mournful , but quick . ''