the LOGGERS COME Arthur Scott Bailey Fatty Coon be frighten ; he have just wake up and he hear a sound that be exactly like the noise Farmer Green and he hire man have make when they cut down the tall chestnut tree where he be perch . `` oh , Mother ! what be it ? '' he cry . `` the logger have come , '' Mrs. Coon say . `` they be cut down all the big tree in the swamp . '' `` then we 'll have to move , will not we ? '' Fatty ask . `` no ! they will not touch this tree , '' he mother tell he . `` it be a old tree , and hollow -- so they will not chop it down . it be only the good sound tree that they 'll take . '' `` but I think this be a good tree . '' Fatty be puzzle . `` so it be , my son ! it be a good tree for we . but not for the logger . they would have little use for it . '' Fatty Coon feel better when he hear that . and he have a good deal of fun , peep down at the logger and watch they work . but he take care that they should not see HIM . he know what they bright axis could do . when night come Fatty have still more fun . when the logger be asleep Fatty go to they camp in the wood beside the brook and he find many good thing to eat . he do not know the name of all the goody ; but he eat they just the same . he ` specially like some potato which the careless cook have leave in a pan near the open camp-fire . the fire be out . and the pan rest on a stump close beside it . Fatty Coon climb up and crawl right inside the pan . and after he have have one taste of those potato he grow so excited -- they be so good -- that he tip the pan off the stump and the potato roll right into the ash . Fatty have jump to one side , when the tin pan fall . it make a great clatter ; and he keep very still for a few moment , while he listen . but no one stir . and then Fatty jump plump into the ash . whew ! he jump out again as fast as he could ; for beneath the ash there be plenty of hot coal . Fatty stand in they for not more than three seconds , but that be quite long enough . the bottom of he foot burn as if a hundred hornet have sting they . he stand first on one foot and then on another . if you could have see he you would have think Fatty be dance . and you might have laugh , because he look funny . but Fatty Coon do not laugh . in fact , he come very near cry . and he do not wait to eat another mouthful . he limp along toward home . and it be several day before he stir out of he mother 's house again . he just lay in he bed and wait until he burn be well again . it be very hard . for Fatty do not like to think of all those good thing to eat that he be miss . and he hope the logger would not go away before he foot be well again .