the GOBLIN of ADACHIGAHARA . Japanese Writer Long , long ago there be a large plain call Adachigahara , in the province of Mutsu in Japan . this place be say to be haunt by a cannibal goblin who take the form of a old woman . from time to time many traveler disappear and be never hear of more , and the old woman round the charcoal brazier in the evening , and the girl wash the household rice at the well in the morning , whisper dreadful story of how the miss folk have be lure to the goblin 's cottage and devour , for the goblin live only on human flesh . no one dare to venture near the haunt spot after sunset , and all those who could , avoid it in the daytime , and traveler be warn of the dreaded place . one day as the sun be set , a priest come to the plain . he be a belated traveler , and he robe show that he be a Buddhist pilgrim walking from shrine to shrine to pray for some blessing or to crave for forgiveness of sin . he have apparently lose he way , and as it be late he meet no one who could show he the road or warn he of the haunt spot . he have walk the whole day and be now tire and hungry , and the evening be chilly , for it be late autumn , and he begin to be very anxious to find some house where he could obtain a night 's lodging . he find himself lose in the midst of the large plain , and look about in vain for some sign of human habitation . at last , after wander about for some hour , he see a clump of tree in the distance , and through the tree he catch sight of the glimmer of a single ray of light . he exclaim with joy : `` oh . surely that be some cottage where I can get a night 's lodging ! '' keep the light before he eye he drag he weary , ache foot as quickly as he could towards the spot , and soon come to a miserable-looking little cottage . as he draw near he see that it be in a tumble-down condition , the bamboo fence be break and weed and grass push they way through the gap . the paper screen which serve as window and door in Japan be full of hole , and the post of the house be bent with age and seem scarcely able to support the old thatched roof . the hut be open , and by the light of a old lantern a old woman sit industriously spinning . the pilgrim call to she across the bamboo fence and say : `` O Baa San -lrb-B- old woman -rrb-B- , good evening ! I be a traveler ! please excuse I , but I have lose my way and do not know what to do , for I have nowhere to rest to-night . I beg you to be good enough to let I spend the night under you roof . '' the old woman as soon as she hear herself speak to stop spinning , rise from she seat and approach the intruder . `` I be very sorry for you . you must indeed be distressed to have lose you way in such a lonely spot so late at night . unfortunately I can not put you up , for I have no bed to offer you , and no accommodation whatsoever for a guest in this poor place ! '' `` oh , that do not matter , '' say the priest ; `` all I want be a shelter under some roof for the night , and if you will be good enough just to let I lie on the kitchen floor I shall be grateful . I be too tire to walk further to-night , so I hope you will not refuse I , otherwise I shall have to sleep out on the cold plain . '' and in this way he press the old woman to let he stay . she seem very reluctant , but at last she say : `` very well , I will let you stay here . I can offer you a very poor welcome only , but come in now and I will make a fire , for the night be cold . '' the pilgrim be only too glad to do as he be tell . he take off he sandal and enter the hut . the old woman then bring some stick of wood and light the fire , and bid she guest draw near and warm himself . `` you must be hungry after you long tramp , '' say the old woman . `` I will go and cook some supper for you . '' she then go to the kitchen to cook some rice . after the priest have finish he supper the old woman sit down by the fire-place , and they talk together for a long time . the pilgrim think to himself that he have be very lucky to come across such a kind , hospitable old woman . at last the wood give out , and as the fire die slowly down he begin to shiver with cold just as he have do when he arrive . `` I see you be cold , '' say the old woman ; `` I will go out and gather some wood , for we have use it all . you must stay and take care of the house while I be go . '' `` no , no , '' say the pilgrim , `` let I go instead , for you be old , and I can not think of let you go out to get wood for I this cold night ! '' the old woman shake she head and say : `` you must stay quietly here , for you be my guest . '' then she leave he and go out . in a minute she come back and say : `` you must sit where you be and not move , and whatever happen do not go near or look into the inner room . now mind what I tell you ! '' `` if you tell I not to go near the back room , of course I will not , '' say the priest , rather bewilder . the old woman then go out again , and the priest be leave alone . the fire have die out , and the only light in the hut be that of a dim lantern . for the first time that night he begin to feel that he be in a weird place , and the old woman 's word , `` whatever you do do not peep into the back room , '' arouse he curiosity and he fear . what hide thing could be in that room that she do not wish he to see ? for some time the remembrance of he promise to the old woman keep he still , but at last he could no longer resist he curiosity to peep into the forbid place . he get up and begin to move slowly towards the back room . then the thought that the old woman would be very angry with he if he disobey she make he come back to he place by the fireside . as the minute go slowly by and the old woman do not return , he begin to feel more and more frightened , and to wonder what dreadful secret be in the room behind he . he must find out . `` she will not know that I have look unless I tell she . I will just have a peep before she come back , '' say the man to himself . with these word he get up on he foot -lrb-B- for he have be sit all this time in japanese fashion with he foot under he -rrb-B- and stealthily creep towards the forbid spot . with tremble hand he push back the slide door and look in . what he see freeze the blood in he vein . the room be full of dead man 's bone and the wall be splash and the floor be cover with human blood . in one corner skull upon skull rise to the ceiling , in another be a heap of arm bone , in another a heap of leg bone . the sicken smell make he faint . he fall backwards with horror , and for some time lay in a heap with fright on the floor , a pitiful sight . he tremble all over and he tooth chatter , and he could hardly crawl away from the dreadful spot . `` how horrible ! '' he cry out . `` what awful den have I come to in my travels ? May Buddha help I or I be lose . be it possible that that kind old woman be really the cannibal goblin ? when she come back she will show herself in she true character and eat I up at one mouthful ! '' with these word he strength come back to he and , snatch up he hat and staff , he rush out of the house as fast as he leg could carry he . out into the night he run , he one thought to get as far as he could from the goblin 's haunt . he have not go far when he hear step behind he and a voice cry : `` stop ! stop ! '' he run on , redouble he speed , pretend not to hear . as he run he hear the step behind he come nearer and nearer , and at last he recognize the old woman 's voice which grow louder and louder as she come nearer . `` stop ! stop , you wicked man , why do you look into the forbid room ? '' the priest quite forget how tired he be and he foot fly over the ground faster than ever . fear give he strength , for he know that if the goblin catch he he would soon be one of she victim . with all he heart he repeat the prayer to Buddha : `` Namu Amida Butsu , Namu Amida Butsu . '' and after he rush the dreadful old hag , she hair fly in the wind , and she face change with rage into the demon that she be . in she hand she carry a large blood-stained knife , and she still shriek after he , `` stop ! stop ! '' at last , when the priest feel he could run no more , the dawn break , and with the darkness of night the goblin vanish and he be safe . the priest now know that he have meet the Goblin of Adachigahara , the story of whom he have often hear but never believe to be true . he feel that he owe he wonderful escape to the protection of Buddha to whom he have pray for help , so he take out he rosary and bow he head as the sun rise he say he prayer and make he thanksgiving earnestly . he then set forward for another part of the country , only too glad to leave the haunt plain behind he .