132 the Fox and the Horse BrothersS Grimm by BrothersS Grimm A peasant have a faithful horse which have grow old and could do no more work , so he master would no longer give he anything to eat and say , `` I can certainly make no more use of thee , but still I mean well by thee ; if thou provest thyself still strong enough to bring I a lion here , I will maintain thee , but now take thyself away out of my stable , '' and with that he chase he into the open country . the horse be sad , and go to the forest to seek a little protection there from the weather . then the fox meet he and say , `` why dost thou hang thy head so , and go about all alone ? '' `` Alas , '' reply the horse , `` avarice and fidelity do not dwell together in one house . my master have forget what service I have perform for he for so many year , and because I can no longer plough well , he will give I no more food , and have drive I out . '' `` without give thee a chance ? '' ask the fox . `` the chance be a bad one . he say , if I be still strong enough to bring he a lion , he would keep I , but he well know that I can not do that . '' the fox say , `` I will help thee , just lay thyself down , stretch thyself out , as if thou wert dead , and do not stir . '' the horse do as the fox desire , and the fox go to the lion , who have he den not far off , and say , `` a dead horse be lie outside there , just come with I , thou canst have a rich meal . '' the lion go with he , and when they be both standing by the horse the fox say , `` after all , it be not very comfortable for thee here I tell thee what I will fasten it to thee by the tail , and then thou canst drag it into thy cave , and devour it in peace . '' this advice please the lion : he lay down , and in order that the fox might tie the horse fast to he , he keep quite quiet . but the fox tie the lion 's leg together with the horse 's tail , and twist and fasten all so well and so strongly that no strength could break it . when he have finish he work , he tap the horse on the shoulder and say , `` Pull , white horse , pull . '' then up spring the horse at once , and draw the lion away with he . the lion begin to roar so that all the bird in the forest fly out in terror , but the horse let he roar , and draw he and drag he over the country to he master 's door . when the master see the lion , he be of a better mind , and say to the horse , `` Thou shalt stay with I and fare well , '' and he give he plenty to eat until he die .