the bamboo-cutter and the MOON-CHILD . Japanese Writer Long , long ago , there live a old bamboo wood-cutter . he be very poor and sad also , for no child have Heaven send to cheer he old age , and in he heart there be no hope of rest from work till he die and be lay in the quiet grave . every morning he go forth into the wood and hill wherever the bamboo rear its lithe green plume against the sky . when he have make he choice , he would cut down these feather of the forest , and splitting they lengthwise , or cut they into joint , would carry the bamboo wood home and make it into various article for the household , and he and he old wife gain a small livelihood by sell they . one morning as usual he have go out to he work , and have find a nice clump of bamboo , have set to work to cut some of they down . suddenly the green grove of bamboo be flood with a bright soft light , as if the full moon have rise over the spot . look round in astonishment , he see that the brilliance be stream from one bamboo . the old man . full of wonder . drop he ax and go towards the light . on nearer approach he see that this soft splendor come from a hollow in the green bamboo stem , and still more wonderful to behold , in the midst of the brilliance stand a tiny human being , only three inch in height , and exquisitely beautiful in appearance . `` you must be send to be my child , for I find you here among the bamboo where lie my daily work , '' say the old man , and take the little creature in he hand he take it home to he wife to bring up . the tiny girl be so exceedingly beautiful and so small , that the old woman put she into a basket to safeguard she from the least possibility of be hurt in any way . the old couple be now very happy , for it have be a lifelong regret that they have no child of they own , and with joy they now expend all the love of they old age on the little child who have come to they in so marvelous a manner . from this time on , the old man often find gold in the notch of the bamboo when he hew they down and cut they up ; not only gold , but precious stone also , so that by degree he become rich . he build himself a fine house , and be no longer know as the poor bamboo woodcutter , but as a wealthy man . three month pass quickly away , and in that time the bamboo child have , wonderful to say , become a full-grown girl , so she foster - parent do up she hair and dress she in beautiful kimono . she be of such wondrous beauty that they place she behind the screen like a princess , and allow no one to see she , wait upon she themselves . it seem as if she be make of light , for the house be fill with a soft shine , so that even in the dark of night it be like daytime . she presence seem to have a benign influence on those there . whenever the old man feel sad , he have only to look upon he foster-daughter and he sorrow vanish , and he become as happy as when he be a youth . at last the day come for the naming of they new-found child , so the old couple call in a celebrated name-giver , and he give she the name of Princess Moonlight , because she body give forth so much soft bright light that she might have be a daughter of the Moon God . for three day the festival be keep up with song and dance and music . all the friend and relation of the old couple be present , and great be they enjoyment of the festivity hold to celebrate the naming of Princess Moonlight . everyone who see she declare that there never have be see any one so lovely ; all the beauty throughout the length and breadth of the land would grow pale beside she , so they say . the fame of the Princess 's loveliness spread far and wide , and many be the suitor who desire to win she hand , or even so much as to see she . suitor from far and near post themselves outside the house , and make little hole in the fence , in the hope of catch a glimpse of the Princess as she go from one room to the other along the veranda . they stay there day and night , sacrifice even they sleep for a chance of see she , but all in vain . then they approach the house , and try to speak to the old man and he wife or some of the servant , but not even this be grant they . still , in spite of all this disappointment they stay on day after day , and night after night , and count it as nothing , so great be they desire to see the Princess . at last , however , most of the man , see how hopeless they quest be , lose heart and hope both , and return to they home . all except five knight , whose ardor and determination , instead of wane , seem to wax greater with obstacle . these five man even go without they meal , and take snatch of whatever they could get bring to they , so that they might always stand outside the dwelling . they stand there in all weather , in sunshine and in rain . sometimes they write letter to the Princess , but no answer be vouchsafe to they . then when letter fail to draw any reply , they write poem to she tell she of the hopeless love which keep they from sleep , from food , from rest , and even from they home . still Princes Moonlight give no sign of have receive they verse . in this hopeless state the winter pass . the snow and frost and the cold wind gradually give place to the gentle warmth of spring . then the summer come , and the sun burn white and scorch in the heaven above and on the earth beneath , and still these faithful knight keep watch and wait . at the end of these long month they call out to the old bamboo-cutter and entreat he to have some mercy upon they and to show they the Princess , but he answer only that as he be not she real father he could not insist on she obey he against she wish . the five knight on receive this stern answer return to they several home , and ponder over the best means of touch the proud Princess 's heart , even so much as to grant they a hearing . they take they rosary in hand and knelt before they household shrine , and burned precious incense , pray to Buddha to give they they heart 's desire . thus several day pass , but even so they could not rest in they home . so again they set out for the bamboo-cutter 's house . this time the old man come out to see they , and they ask he to let they know if it be the Princess 's resolution never to see any man whatsoever , and they implore he to speak for they and to tell she the greatness of they love , and how long they have wait through the cold of winter and the heat of summer , sleepless and roofless through all weather , without food and without rest , in the ardent hope of win she , and they be willing to consider this long vigil as pleasure if she would but give they one chance of plead they cause with she . the old man lend a willing ear to they tale of love , for in he inmost heart he feel sorry for these faithful suitor and would have like to see he lovely foster-daughter marry to one of they . so he go in to Princess Moonlight and say reverently : `` although you have always seem to I to be a heavenly be , yet I have have the trouble of bring you up as my own child and you have be glad of the protection of my roof . Will you refuse to do as I wish ? '' then Princess Moonlight reply that there be nothing she would not do for he , that she honor and love he as she own father , and that as for herself she could not remember the time before she come to earth . the old man listen with great joy as she speak these dutiful word . then he tell she how anxious he be to see she safely and happily marry before he die . `` I be a old man , over seventy year of age , and my end may come any time now . it be necessary and right that you should see these five suitor and choose one of they . '' `` oh , why , '' say the Princess in distress , `` must I do this ? I have no wish to marry now . '' `` I find you , '' answer the old man , `` many year ago , when you be a little creature three inch high , in the midst of a great white light . the light stream from the bamboo in which you be hide and lead I to you . so I have always think that you be more than mortal woman . while I be alive it be right for you to remain as you be if you wish to do so , but some day I shall cease to be and who will take care of you then ? therefore I pray you to meet these five brave man one at a time and make up you mind to marry one of they ! '' then the Princess answer that she feel sure that she be not as beautiful as perhaps report make she out to be , and that even if she consent to marry any one of they , not really know she before , he heart might change afterwards . so as she do not feel sure of they , even though she father tell she they be worthy knight , she do not feel it wise to see they . `` all you say be very reasonable , '' say the old man , `` but what kind of man will you consent to see ? I do not call these five man who have wait on you for month , light-hearted . they have stand outside this house through the winter and the summer , often deny themselves food and sleep so that they may win you . what more can you demand ? '' then Princess Moonlight say she must make further trial of they love before she would grant they request to interview she . the five warrior be to prove they love by each bring she from distant country something that she desire to possess . that same evening the suitor arrive and begin to play they flute in turn , and to sing they self-composed song tell of they great and tireless love . the bamboo-cutter go out to they and offer they he sympathy for all they have endure and all the patience they have show in they desire to win he foster-daughter . then he give they she message , that she would consent to marry whosoever be successful in bring she what she want . this be to test they . the five all accept the trial , and think it a excellent plan , for it would prevent jealousy between they . Princess Moonlight then send word to the First Knight that she request he to bring she the stone bowl which have belong to Buddha in India . the Second Knight be ask to go to the Mountain of Horai , say to be situate in the Eastern Sea , and to bring she a branch of the wonderful tree that grow on its summit . the root of this tree be of silver , the trunk of gold , and the branch bear as fruit white jewel . the Third Knight be tell to go to China and search for the fire-rat and to bring she its skin . the fourth Knight be tell to search for the dragon that carry on its head the stone radiate five color and to bring the stone to she . the Fifth Knight be to find the swallow which carry a shell in its stomach and to bring the shell to she . the old man think these very hard task and hesitate to carry the message , but the Princess would make no other condition . so she command be issue word for word to the five man who , when they hear what be require of they , be all dishearten and disgust at what seem to they the impossibility of the task give they and return to they own home in despair . but after a time , when they think of the Princess , the love in they heart revive for she , and they resolve to make a attempt to get what she desire of they . the First Knight send word to the Princess that he be start out that day on the quest of Buddha 's bowl , and he hope soon to bring it to she . but he have not the courage to go all the way to India , for in those day travel be very difficult and full of danger , so he go to one of the temple in Kyoto and take a stone bowl from the altar there , pay the priest a large sum of money for it . he then wrap it in a cloth of gold and , wait quietly for three year , return and carry it to the old man . Princess Moonlight wonder that the Knight should have return so soon . she take the bowl from its gold wrapping , expect it to make the room full of light , but it do not shine at all , so she know that it be a sham thing and not the true bowl of Buddha . she return it at once and refuse to see he . the Knight throw the bowl away and return to he home in despair . he give up now all hope of ever win the Princess . the Second Knight tell he parent that he need change of air for he health , for he be ashamed to tell they that love for the Princess Moonlight be the real cause of he leave they . he then leave he home , at the same time send word to the Princess that he be set out for Mount Horai in the hope of get she a branch of the gold and silver tree which she so much wish to have . he only allow he servant to accompany he half-way , and then send they back . he reach the seashore and embark on a small ship , and after sail away for three day he land and employ several carpenter to build he a house contrived in such a way that no one could get access to it . he then shut himself up with six skilled jeweler , and endeavor to make such a gold and silver branch as he think would satisfy the Princess as have come from the wonderful tree grow on Mount Horai . every one whom he have ask declare that Mount Horai belong to the land of fable and not to fact . when the branch be finish , he take he journey home and try to make himself look as if he be wearied and worn out with travel . he put the jeweled branch into a lacquer box and carry it to the bamboo-cutter , beg he to present it to the Princess . the old man be quite deceive by the travel-stained appearance of the Knight , and think that he have only just return from he long journey with the branch . so he try to persuade the Princess to consent to see the man . but she remain silent and look very sad . the old man begin to take out the branch and praise it as a wonderful treasure to be find nowhere in the whole land . then he speak of the Knight , how handsome and how brave he be to have undertake a journey to so remote a place as the Mount of Horai . Princess Moonlight take the branch in she hand and look at it carefully . she then tell she foster-parent that she know it be impossible for the man to have obtain a branch from the gold and silver tree grow on Mount Horai so quickly or so easily , and she be sorry to say she believe it artificial . the old man then go out to the expectant Knight , who have now approach the house , and ask where he have find the branch . then the man do not scruple to make up a long story . `` two year ago I take a ship and start in search of Mount Horai . after go before the wind for some time I reach the far Eastern Sea . then a great storm arise and I be toss about for many day , lose all count of the point of the compass , and finally we be blow ashore on a unknown island . here I find the place inhabit by demon who at one time threaten to kill and eat I . however , I manage to make friend with these horrible creature , and they help I and my sailor to repair the boat , and I set sail again . we food give out , and we suffer much from sickness on board . at last , on the five-hundredth day from the day of start , I see far off on the horizon what look like the peak of a mountain . on nearer approach , this prove to be a island , in the center of which rise a high mountain . I land , and after wander about for two or three day , I see a shine being come towards I on the beach , hold in he hand a golden bowl . I go up to he and ask he if I have , by good chance , find the island of Mount Horai , and he answer : '' '' ` yes , this be Mount Horai ! ' '' `` with much difficulty I climb to the summit , here stand the golden tree grow with silver root in the ground . the wonder of that strange land be many , and if I begin to tell you about they I could never stop . in spite of my wish to stay there long , on break off the branch I hurry back . with utmost speed it have take I four hundred day to get back , and , as you see , my clothes be still damp from exposure on the long sea voyage . I have not even wait to change my raiment , so anxious be I to bring the branch to the Princess quickly . '' just at this moment the six jeweler , who have be employ on the making of the branch , but not yet pay by the Knight , arrive at the house and send in a petition to the Princess to be pay for they labor . they say that they have work for over a thousand day make the branch of gold , with its silver twig and its jeweled fruit , that be now present to she by the Knight , but as yet they have receive nothing in payment . so this Knight 's deception be thus find out , and the Princess , glad of a escape from one more importunate suitor , be only too pleased to send back the branch . she call in the workman and have they pay liberally , and they go away happy . but on the way home they be overtake by the disappointed man . who beat they till they be nearly dead , for let out the secret , and they barely escape with they life . the Knight then return home , rage in he heart ; and in despair of ever win the Princess give up society and retire to a solitary life among the mountain . now the Third Knight have a friend in China , so he write to he to get the skin of the fire-rat . the virtue of any part of this animal be that no fire could harm it . he promise he friend any amount of money he like to ask if only he could get he the desire article . as soon as the news come that the ship on which he friend have sail home have come into port , he ride seven day on horseback to meet he . he hand he friend a large sum of money , and receive the fire-rat 's skin . when he reach home he put it carefully in a box and send it in to the Princess while he wait outside for she answer . the bamboo-cutter take the box from the Knight and , as usual , carry it in to she and try to coax she to see the Knight at once , but Princess Moonlight refuse , say that she must first put the skin to test by put it into the fire . if it be the real thing it would not burn . so she take off the crape wrapper and open the box , and then throw the skin into the fire . the skin crackle and burn up at once , and the Princess know that this man also have not fulfil he word . so the Third Knight fail also . now the fourth Knight be no more enterprising than the rest . instead of start out on the quest of the dragon bearing on its head the five-color-radiating jewel , he call all he servant together and give they the order to seek for it far and wide in Japan and in China , and he strictly forbid any of they to return till they have find it . he numerous retainer and servant start out in different direction , with no intention , however , of obey what they consider a impossible order . they simply take a holiday , go to pleasant country place together , and grumble at they master 's unreasonableness . the Knight meanwhile , think that he retainer could not fail to find the jewel , repair to he house , and fit it up beautifully for the reception of the Princess , he feel so sure of win she . one year pass away in weary waiting , and still he man do not return with the dragon-jewel . the Knight become desperate . he could wait no longer , so take with he only two man he hire a ship and command the captain to go in search of the dragon ; the captain and the sailor refuse to undertake what they say be a absurd search , but the Knight compel they at last to put out to sea . when they have be but a few day out they encounter a great storm which last so long that , by the time its fury abate , the Knight have determine to give up the hunt of the dragon . they be at last blow on shore , for navigation be primitive in those day . worn out with he travels and anxiety , the fourth suitor give himself up to rest . he have catch a very heavy cold , and have to go to bed with a swollen face . the governor of the place , hearing of he plight , send messenger with a letter invite he to he house . while he be there think over all he trouble , he love for the Princess turn to anger , and he blame she for all the hardship he have undergo . he think that it be quite probable she have wish to kill he so that she might be rid of he , and in order to carry out she wish have send he upon he impossible quest . at this point all the servant he have send out to find the jewel come to see he , and be surprise to find praise instead of displeasure await they . they master tell they that he be heartily sick of adventure , and say that he never intend to go near the Princess 's house again in the future . like all the rest , the Fifth Knight fail in he quest -- he could not find the swallow 's shell . by this time the fame of Princess Moonlight 's beauty have reach the ear of the Emperor , and he send one of the Court lady to see if she be really as lovely as report say ; if so he would summon she to the Palace and make she one of the lady-in-waiting . when the Court lady arrive , in spite of she father 's entreaty , Princess Moonlight refuse to see she . the Imperial messenger insist , say it be the Emperor 's order . then Princess Moonlight tell the old man that if she be force to go to the Palace in obedience to the Emperor 's order , she would vanish from the earth . when the Emperor be tell of she persistence in refuse to obey he summons , and that if press to obey she would disappear altogether from sight , he determine to go and see she . so he plan to go on a hunting excursion in the neighborhood of the bamboo-cutter 's house , and see the Princess himself . he send word to the old man of he intention , and he receive consent to the scheme . the next day the Emperor set out with he retinue , which he soon manage to outride . he find the bamboo-cutter 's house and dismounted . he then enter the house and go straight to where the Princess be sit with she attendant maiden . never have he see any one so wonderfully beautiful , and he could not but look at she , for she be more lovely than any human being as she shine in she own soft radiance . when Princess Moonlight become aware that a stranger be look at she she try to escape from the room , but the Emperor catch she and beg she to listen to what he have to say . she only answer be to hide she face in she sleeve . the Emperor fall deeply in love with she , and beg she to come to the Court , where he would give she a position of honor and everything she could wish for . he be about to send for one of the Imperial palanquin to take she back with he at once , say that she grace and beauty should adorn a Court , and not be hide in a bamboo-cutter 's cottage . but the Princess stop he . she say that if she be force to go to the Palace she would turn at once into a shadow , and even as she speak she begin to lose she form . she figure fade from he sight while he look . the Emperor then promise to leave she free if only she would resume she former shape , which she do . it be now time for he to return , for he retinue would be wonder what have happen to they Royal master when they miss he for so long . so be bid she good-by , and leave the house with a sad heart . Princess Moonlight be for he the most beautiful woman in the world ; all other be dark beside she , and he think of she night and day . he Majesty now spend much of he time in write poem , tell she of he love and devotion , and send they to she , and though she refuse to see he again she answer with many verse of she own composing , which tell he gently and kindly that she could never marry any one on this earth . these little song always give he pleasure . at this time she foster-parents notice that night after night the Princess would sit on she balcony and gaze for hour at the moon , in a spirit of the deepest dejection , end always in a burst of tear . one night the old man find she thus weep as if she heart be break , and he beseech she to tell he the reason of she sorrow . with many tear she tell he that he have guess rightly when he suppose she not to belong to this world -- that she have in truth come from the moon , and that she time on earth would soon be over . on the fifteenth day of that very month of August she friend from the moon would come to fetch she , and she would have to return . she parent be both there , but have spend a lifetime on the earth she have forget they , and also the moon-world to which she belong . it make she weep , she say , to think of leave she kind foster - parent , and the home where she have be happy for so long . when she attendant hear this they be very sad , and could not eat or drink for sadness at the thought that the Princess be so soon to leave they . the Emperor , as soon as the news be carry to he , send messenger to the house to find out if the report be true or not . the old bamboo-cutter go out to meet the Imperial messenger . the last few day of sorrow have tell upon the old man ; he have age greatly , and look much more than he seventy year . weep bitterly , he tell they that the report be only too true , but he intend , however , to make prisoner of the envoy from the moon , and to do all he could to prevent the Princess from be carry back . the man return and tell he Majesty all that have pass . on the fifteenth day of that month the Emperor send a guard of two thousand warrior to watch the house . one thousand station themselves on the roof , another thousand keep watch round all the entrance of the house . all be well train archer , with bow and arrow . the bamboo-cutter and he wife hide Princess Moonlight in a inner room . the old man give order that no one be to sleep that night , all in the house be to keep a strict watch , and be ready to protect the Princess . with these precaution , and the help of the Emperor 's man - at-arms , he hope to withstand the moon-messengers , but the Princess tell he that all these measure to keep she would be useless , and that when she people come for she nothing whatever could prevent they from carry out they purpose . even the EmperorsS man would be powerless . then she add with tear that she be very , very sorry to leave he and he wife , whom she have learn to love as she parent , that if she could do as she like she would stay with they in they old age , and try to make some return for all the love and kindness they have shower upon she during all she earthly life . the night wear on ! the yellow harvest moon rise high in the heaven , flood the world asleep with she golden light . silence reign over the pine and the bamboo forest , and on the roof where the thousand man-at-arms wait . then the night grow gray towards the dawn and all hope that the danger be over -- that Princess Moonlight would not have to leave they after all . then suddenly the watcher see a cloud form round the moon -- and while they look this cloud begin to roll earthward . Nearer and nearer it come , and every one saw with dismay that its course lay towards the house . in a short time the sky be entirely obscure , till at last the cloud lay over the dwelling only ten foot off the ground . in the midst of the cloud there stand a fly chariot , and in the chariot a band of luminous being . one amongst they who look like a king and appear to be the chief step out of the chariot , and , poise in air , call to the old man to come out . `` the time have come , '' he say , `` for Princess Moonlight to return to the moon from whence she come . she commit a grave fault , and as a punishment be send to live down here for a time . we know what good care you have take of the Princess , and we have reward you for this and have send you wealth and prosperity . we put the gold in the bamboo for you to find . '' `` I have bring up this Princess for twenty year and never once have she do a wrong thing , therefore the lady you be seek can not be this one , '' say the old man . `` I pray you to look elsewhere . '' then the messenger call aloud , say : `` Princess Moonlight , come out from this lowly dwelling . rest not here another moment , '' at these word the screen of the Princess 's room slide open of they own accord , reveal the Princess shine in she own radiance , bright and wonderful and full of beauty . the messenger lead she forth and place she in the chariot . she look back , and see with pity the deep sorrow of the old man . she speak to he many comforting word , and tell he that it be not she will to leave he and that he must always think of she when look at the moon . the bamboo-cutter implore to be allow to accompany she , but this be not allow . the Princess take off she embroidered outer garment and give it to he as a keepsake . one of the moon being in the chariot hold a wonderful coat of wing , another have a phial full of the Elixir of Life which be give the Princess to drink . she swallow a little and be about to give the rest to the old man , but she be prevent from do so . the robe of wing be about to be put upon she shoulder , but she say : `` wait a little . I must not forget my good friend the Emperor . I must write he once more to say good-by while still in this human form . '' in spite of the impatience of the messenger and charioteer she keep they wait while she write . she place the phial of the Elixir of Life with the letter , and , give they to the old man , she ask he to deliver they to the Emperor . then the chariot begin to roll heavenward towards the moon , and as they all gaze with tearful eye at the recede Princess , the dawn break , and in the rosy light of day the moon-chariot and all in it be lose amongst the fleecy cloud that be now waft across the sky on the wing of the morning wind . Princess Moonlight 's letter be carry to the Palace . he Majesty be afraid to touch the elixir of Life , so he send it with the letter to the top of the most sacred mountain in the land . Mount Fuji , and there the Royal emissary burn it on the summit at sunrise . so to this day people say there be smoke to be see rise from the top of Mount Fuji to the cloud .