the third voyage of SINBAD the SAILOR . Arabian Writer the pleasure of the life which I then lead soon make I forget the risk I have run in my two former voyage ; but , be then in the flower of my age I grow weary of live without business ; and harden myself against the thought of any danger I might incur , I go from Bagdad , with the richest commodity of the country , to Balsora : there I embark again with the merchant . we make a long voyage , and touch at several port , where we drive a considerable trade . one day , be out in the main ocean , we be attack by a horrible tempest , which make we lose we course . the tempest continue several day , and bring we before the port of a island , where the captain be very unwilling to enter ; but we be oblige to cast anchor there . when we have furl we sail the captain tell we that this and some other neighbouring island be inhabit by hairy savage , who would speedily attack we ; and though they be but dwarf , yet we misfortune be that we must make no resistance , for they be more in number than the locust ; and if we happen to kill one of they they would all fall upon we and destroy we . this discourse of the captain put the whole company into a great consternation ; and we find very soon , to we cost , that what he have tell we be but too true ; a innumerable multitude of frightful savage , cover all over with red hair , and about two foot high , come swimming towards we , and in a little time encompass we ship . they speak to we as they come near , but we understand not they language ; they climb up the side of the ship with a agility that surprise we . we behold all this with mortal fear , without daring to offer to defend ourselves , or to speak one word to divert they from they mischievous design . in short , they take down we sail , cut the cable , and , haul to the shore , make we all get out , and afterwards carry the ship into another island , from whence they have come . all traveller carefully avoid that island where they leave we , it be very dangerous to stay there , for a reason you shall hear anon ; but we be force to bear we affliction with patience . we go forward into the island , where we find some fruit and herb to prolong we life as long as we could ; but we expect nothing but death . as we go on we perceive at a distance a great pile of building , and make towards it . we find it to be a palace , well build , and very lofty , with a gate of ebony with double door , which we thrust open . we enter the court , where we see before we a vast apartment with a porch , have on one side a heap of man 's bone , and on the other a vast number of roast spit . we tremble at this spectacle , and , be weary with travel , we leg fail under we : we fall to the ground , seize with deadly fear , and lay a long time motionless . the sun have set , and whilst we be in the lamentable condition just mention , the gate of the apartment open with a great noise , and there come out the horrible figure of a black man , as high as a tall palm tree . he have but one eye , and that in the middle of he forehead , where it look as red as a burning coal . he fore-teeth be very long and sharp , and stand out of he mouth , which be as deep as that of a horse ; he upper lip hang down upon he breast ; he ear resemble those of a elephant , and cover he shoulder ; and he nail be as long and crooked as the talon of the greatest bird . at the sight of so frightful a giant we lose all we sens , and lay like man dead . at last we come to ourselves , and see he sit in the porch , look at we . when he have consider we well , he advance towards we , and lay he hand upon I , he take I up by the nape of my neck , and turn I round as a butcher would do a sheep 's head . after have view I well , and perceive I to be so lean that I have nothing but skin and bone , he let I go . he take up all the rest , one by one , and view they in the same manner ; and the captain be the fattest , he hold he with one hand , as I might a sparrow , and thrust a spit through he , kindle a great fire , roasted , and eat he in he apartment for he supper . this be do , he return to he porch , where he lay and fall asleep , snore louder than thunder . he sleep thus till morning . for we part , it be not possible for we to enjoy any rest ; so that we pass the night in the most cruel fear that can be imagine . Day be come , the giant awake , get up , go out , and leave we in the palace . when we think he at a distance , we break the melancholy silence we have keep all night , and every one grieve more than another , we make the palace resound with we complaint and groan . though there be a great many of we , and we have but one enemy , we have not at first the presence of mind to think of deliver ourselves from he by he death . we think of several other thing , but determine nothing ; so that , submit to what it should please God to order concern we , we spend the day in run about the island for fruit and herb to sustain we life . when evening come , we seek for a place to lie down in , but find none ; so that we be force , whether we would or not , to return to the palace . the giant fail not to come back , and sup once more upon one of we companion ; after which he sleep , and snore till day , and then go out and leave we as formerly . we condition be so very terrible that several of my comrade design to throw themselves into the sea , rather than die so strange a death . those who be of this mind argue with the rest to follow they example ; upon which one of the company answer that we be forbid to destroy ourselves ; but even if it be lawful , it be more reasonable to think of a way to rid ourselves of the barbarous tyrant who design so cruel a death for we . have thought of a project for that end , I communicate the same to my comrade , who approve it . ` Brethren , ' say I , ` you know there be a great deal of timber float upon the coast ; if you will be advise by I , let we make several raft that may carry we , and when they be do , leave they there till we think fit to make use of they . in the meantime we will execute the design to deliver ourselves from the giant , and if it succeed , we may stay here with patience till some ship pass by to carry we out of this fatal island ; but if it happen to miscarry , we will speedily get to we raft , and put to sea . I confess , that by expose ourselves to the fury of the wave , we run a risk of lose we life ; but if we do , be it not better to be bury in the sea than in the entrails of this monster , who have already devour two of we ? ' my advice be relish , and we make raft capable of carry three person each . we return to the palace towards evening , and the giant arrive a little while after . we be force to see another of we comrade roasted . but at last we revenge ourselves on the brutish giant thus . after he have make a end of he cursed supper , he lay down on he back , and fall asleep . as soon as we hear he snore , accord to he custom , nine of the boldest among we , and myself , take each of we a spit , and put the point of they into the fire till they be burn hot , we thrust they into he eye all at once , and blind he . the pain occasion he to make a frightful cry , and to get up and stretch out he hand in order to sacrifice some of we to he rage , but we run to place where he could not find we ; and after have seek for we in vain , he grope for the gate , and go out , howl dreadfully . we go out of the palace after the giant , and come to the shore , where we have leave we raft , and put they immediately into the sea . we wait till day in order to get upon they , in case the giant come towards we with any guide of he own species ; but we hope that if he do not appear by sunrise , and give over he howling , which we still hear , he would die ; and if that happen to be the case , we resolve to stay in the island , and not to risk we life upon the raft . but day have scarcely appear when we perceive we cruel enemy , accompany by two other almost of the same size lead he , and a great number more coming before he with a very quick pace . when we see this , we make no delay , but get immediately upon we raft , and row off from the shore . the giant , who perceive this , take up great stone , and run to the shore enter the water up to they waist , and throw so exactly that they sink all the raft but that I be upon , and all my companion , except the two with I , be drown . we row with all we might , and get out of the reach of the giant ; but when we get out to sea , we be expose to the mercy of the wave and wind , and toss about , sometimes on one side , and sometimes on another , and spend that night and the following day under a cruel uncertainty as to we fate ; but next morning we have the good luck to be throw upon a island , where we land with much joy . we find excellent fruit there , that give we great relief , so that we pretty well recover we strength . in the evening we fall asleep on the bank of the sea , but be awake by the noise of a serpent as long as a palm tree , whose scale make a rustling as he creep along . he swallow up one of my comrade , notwithstanding he loud cry and the effort he make to rid himself from the serpent , which shake he several time against the ground , and crush he ; and we could hear he gnaw and tear the poor wretch 's bone , when we have flee a great distance from he . next day we see the serpent again , to we great terror , and I cry out , ` O heaven , to what danger be we expose ! we rejoice yesterday at have escape from the cruelty of a giant and the rage of the wave , and now be we fall into another danger altogether as terrible . ' as we walk about we see a large tall tree , upon which we design to pass the following night , for we security ; and have satisfy we hunger with fruit , we mount it accordingly . a little while after , the serpent come hiss to the root of the tree , raise itself up against the trunk of it , and meeting with my comrade , who sit lower than I , swallow he at once , and go off . I staid upon the tree till it be day , and then come down , more like a dead man than one alive , expect the same fate as my two companion . this fill I with horror , so that I be go to throw myself into the sea ; but nature prompt we to a desire to live as long as we can , I withstand this temptation to despair , and submit myself to the will of God , who dispose of we life at he pleasure . in the meantime I gather together a great quantity of small wood , bramble , and dry thorn , and make they up into faggot make a great circle with they round the tree , and also tie some of they to the branch over my head . have do thus , when the evening come I shut myself up within this circle , with this melancholy piece of satisfaction , that I have neglect nothing which could preserve I from the cruel destiny with which I be threaten . the serpent fail not to come at the usual hour , and go round the tree , seek for a opportunity to devour I , but be prevent by the rampart I have make , so that he lay till day , like a cat watch in vain for a mouse that have retreat to a place of safety . when day appear he retire , but I dare not to leave my fort until the sun arise . I be fatigue with the toil he have put I to , and suffer so much from he poisonous breath that , death seeming preferable to I than the horror of such a condition . I come down from the tree , and not think on the resignation I have make to the will of God the preceding day , I run towards the sea , with a design to throw myself into it headlong . God take compassion on my desperate state , for just as I be go to throw myself into the sea , I perceive a ship at a considerable distance . I call as loud as I could , and take the linen from my turban , display it that they might observe I . this have the desire effect ; all the crew perceive I , and the captain send he boat for I . as soon as I come aboard , the merchant and seaman flock about I to know how I come to that desert island ; and after I have tell they of all that befall I , the oldest among they say they have several time hear of the giant that dwell in that island , that they be cannibal and eat man raw as well as roasted ; and as to the serpent , he add , there be abundance in the isle that hide themselves by day and come abroad by night . after have testify they joy at my escape so many danger , they bring I the best of what they have to eat ; and the captain , see that I be all in rag , be so generous as to give I one of he own suit . we be at sea for some time , touch at several island , and at last land at that of Salabat , where there grow sander , a wood of great use in physic . we enter the port , and come to anchor . the merchant begin to unload they goods , in order to sell or exchange they . in the meantime the captain come to I , and say , ` brother , I have here a parcel of goods that belong to a merchant who sail some time on board this ship ; and he be dead , I intend to dispose of they for the benefit of he heir , when I know they . ' the bale he speak of lay on the deck , and show they to I , he say , ` there be the goods ; I hope you will take care to sell they , and you shall have a commission . ' I thank he that he give I a opportunity to employ myself , because I hate to be idle . the clerk of the ship take a account of all the bale , with the name of the merchant to whom they belong ; and when he ask the captain in whose name he should enter those he give I the charge of , ` enter they , ' say the captain , ` in the name of Sinbad the sailor . ' I could not hear myself name without some emotion , and look steadfastly on the captain , I know he to be the person who , in my second voyage , have leave I in the island where I fall asleep by a brook , and set sail without I , and without send to look for I . but I could not remember he at first , he be so much alter since I see he . and as for he , who believe I to be dead , I could not wonder at he not know I . ` but , captain , ' say I , ` be the merchant 's name to whom those goods belong Sinbad ? ' ` yes , ' reply he , ` that be he name ; he come from Bagdad , and embark on board my ship at Balsora . one day , when we land at a island to take in water and other refreshment , I know not by what mistake I set sail without observe that he do not re-embark with we ; neither I nor the merchant perceive it till four hour after . we have the wind in we stern and so fresh a gale that it be not then possible for we to tack about for he . ' ` you believe he then to be dead ? ' say I. ` certainly , ' answer he . ` no , captain , ' say I ; ` look upon I , and you may know that I be Sinbad , whom you leave in that desert island . I fall asleep by a brook , and when I awake I find all the company go . ' the captain , have consider I attentively , know I at last embrace I , and say , ` God be praise that fortune have supply my defect . there be you goods , which I always take care to preserve and to make the best of at every port where I touch . I restore they to you , with the profit I have make on they . ' I take they from he , and at the same time acknowledge how much I owe to he . from the Isle of Salabat we go to another , where I furnish myself with clove , cinnamon , and other spice . as we sail from that island we see a tortoise that be twenty cubit in length and breadth . we observe also a fish which look like a cow , and give milk , and its skin be so hard that they usually make buckler of it . I see another which have the shape and color of a camel . in short , after a long voyage , I arrive at Balsora , and from thence return to this city of Bagdad , with so much riches that I know not what I have . I give a great deal to the poor , and buy another great estate in addition to what I have already .