90 the Young Giant BrothersS Grimm once on a time a countryman have a son who be as big as a thumb , and do not become any bigger , and during several year do not grow one hair 's breadth . once when the father be go out to plough , the little one say , `` Father , I will go out with you . '' `` Thou wouldst go out with I ? '' say the father . `` Stay here , thou wilt be of no use out there , besides thou mightest get lose ! '' then thumble begin to cry , and for the sake of peace he father put he in he pocket , and take he with he . when he be outside in the field , he take he out again , and set he in a freshly-cut furrow . Whilst he be there , a great giant come over the hill . `` do thou see that great bogie ? '' say the father , for he want to frighten the little fellow to make he good ; `` he be come to fetch thee . '' the giant , however , have scarcely take two step with he long leg before he be in the furrow . he take up little thumble carefully with two finger , examine he , and without say one word go away with he . he father stand by , but could not utter a sound for terror , and he think nothing else but that he child be lose , and that as long as he live he should never set eye on he again . the giant , however , carry he home , suckle he , and Thumbling grow and become tall and strong after the manner of giant . when two year have pass , the old giant take he into the forest , want to try he , and say , `` pull up a stick for thyself . '' then the boy be already so strong that he tear up a young tree out of the earth by the root . but the giant thought , `` we must do better than that , '' take he back again , and suckle he two year longer . when he try he , he strength have increase so much that he could tear a old tree out of the ground . that be still not enough for the giant ; he again suckle he for two year , and when he then go with he into the forest and say , `` now just tear up a proper stick for I , '' the boy tear up the strongest oak-tree from the earth , so that it split , and that be a mere trifle to he . `` now that will do , '' say the giant , `` thou art perfect , '' and take he back to the field from whence he have bring he . he father be there follow the plough . the young giant go up to he , and say , `` do my father see what a fine man he son have grow into ? '' the farmer be alarm , and say , `` no , thou art not my son ; I do not want thee leave I ! '' `` truly I be you son ; allow I to do you work , I can plough as well as you , nay better . '' `` no , no , thou art not my son ; and thou canst not plough go away ! '' however , as he be afraid of this great man , he leave go of the plough , step back and stand at one side of the piece of land . then the youth take the plough , and just press it with one hand , but he grasp be so strong that the plough go deep into the earth . the farmer could not bear to see that , and call to he , `` if thou art determine to plough , thou must not press so hard on it , that make bad work . '' the youth , however , unharness the horse , and draw the plough himself , say , `` just go home , father , and bid my mother make ready a large dish of food , and in the meantime I will go over the field . '' then the farmer go home , and order he wife to prepare the food ; but the youth plough the field which be two acre large , quite alone , and then he harness himself to the harrow , and harrow the whole of the land , use two harrow at once . when he have do it , he go into the forest , and pull up two oak-trees , lay they across he shoulder , and hang on they one harrow behind and one before , and also one horse behind and one before , and carry all as if it have be a bundle of straw , to he parent ' house . when he enter the yard , he mother do not recognize he , and ask , `` who be that horrible tall man ? '' the farmer say , `` that be we son . '' she say , `` no that can not be we son , we never have such a tall one , ours be a little thing . '' she call to he , `` go away , we do not want thee ! '' the youth be silent , but lead he horse to the stable , give they some oats and hay , and all that they want . when he have do this , he go into the parlor , sit down on the bench and say , `` Mother , now I should like something to eat , will it soon be ready ? '' then she say , `` yes , '' and bring in two immense dish full of food , which would have be enough to satisfy herself and she husband for a week . the youth , however , eat the whole of it himself , and ask if she have nothing more to set before he . `` no , '' she reply , `` that be all we have . '' `` but that be only a taste , I must have more . '' she do not dare to oppose he , and go and put a huge caldron full of food on the fire , and when it be ready , carry it in . `` at length come a few crumb , '' say he , and eat all there be , but it be still not sufficient to appease he hunger . then say he , `` Father , I see well that with you I shall never have food enough ; if you will get I a iron staff which be strong , and which I can not break against my knee , I will go out into the world . '' the farmer be glad , put he two horse in he cart , and fetch from the smith a staff so large and thick , that the two horse could only just bring it away . the youth lay it across he knee , and snap ! he break it in two in the middle like a bean-stalk , and throw it away . the father then harness four horse , and bring a bar which be so long and thick , that the four horse could only just drag it . the son snap this also in twain against he knee , throw it away , and say , `` Father , this can be of no use to I , you must harness more horse , and bring a stronger staff . '' so the father harness eight horse , and bring one which be so long and thick , that the eight horse could only just carry it . when the son take it in he hand , he break off a bit from the top of it also , and say , `` Father , I see that you will not be able to procure I any such staff as I want , I will remain no longer with you . '' so he go away , and give out that he be a smith 's apprentice . he arrive at a village , wherein live a smith who be a greedy fellow , who never do a kindness to any one , but want everything for himself . the youth go into the smithy and ask if he need a journeyman . `` yes , '' say the smith , and look at he , and think , `` that be a strong fellow who will strike out well , and earn he bread . '' so he ask , `` how much wages dost thou want ? '' `` I do not want any at all , '' he reply , `` only every fortnight , when the other journeyman be pay , I will give thee two blow , and thou must bear they . '' the miser be heartily satisfied , and think he would thus save much money . next morning , the strange journeyman be to begin to work , but when the master bring the glowing bar , and the youth strike he first blow , the iron fly asunder , and the anvil sink so deep into the earth , that there be no bring it out again . then the miser grow angry , and say , `` oh , but I can not make any use of you , you strike far too powerfully ; what will you have for the one blow ? '' then say he , `` I will only give you quite a small blow , that be all . '' and he raise he foot , and give he such a kick that he fly away over four load of hay . then he seek out the thickest iron bar in the smithy for himself , take it as a stick in he hand and go onward . when he have walk for some time , he come to a small farm , and ask the bailiff if he do not require a head-servant . `` yes , '' say the bailiff , `` I can make use of one ; you look a strong fellow who can do something , how much a year do you want as wages ? '' he again reply that he want no wages at all , but that every year he would give he three blow , which he must bear . then the bailiff be satisfy , for he , too , be a covetous fellow . next morning all the servant be to go into the wood , and the other be already up , but the head-servant be still in bed . then one of they call to he , `` get up , it be time ; we be go into the wood , and thou must go with we . '' `` ah , '' say he quite roughly and surlily , `` you may just go , then ; I shall be back again before any of you . '' then the other go to the bailiff , and tell he that the head-man be still lie in bed , and would not go into the wood with they . the bailiff say they be to awaken he again , and tell he to harness the horse . the head-man , however , say as before , `` just go there , I shall be back again before any of you . '' and then he stay in bed two hour longer . at length he arise from the feather , but first he get himself two bushel of pea from the loft , make himself some broth with they , eat it at he leisure , and when that be do , go and harness the horse , and drive into the wood . not far from the wood be a ravine through which he have to pass , so he first drive the horse on , and then stop they , and go behind the cart , take tree and brushwood , and make a great barricade , so that no horse could get through . when he be enter the wood , the other be just drive out of it with they loaded cart to go home ; then say he to they , `` Drive on , I will still get home before you do . '' he do not drive far into the wood , but at once tear two of the very largest tree of all out of the earth , throw they on he cart , and turn round . when he come to the barricade , the other be still stand there , not able to get through . `` do not you see , '' say he , `` that if you have stay with I , you would have get home just as quickly , and would have have another hour 's sleep ? '' he now want to drive on , but he horse could not work they way through , so he unharness they , lay they on the top of the cart , take the shaft in he own hand , and pull it all through , and he do this just as easily as if it have be laden with feather . when he be over , he say to the other , `` there , you see , I have get over quicker than you , '' and drive on , and the other have to stay where they be . in the yard , however , he take a tree in he hand , show it to the bailiff , and say , `` be not that a fine bundle of wood ? '' then say the bailiff to he wife , `` the servant be a good one , if he do sleep long , he be still home before the other . '' so he serve the bailiff for a year , and when that be over , and the other servant be get they wages , he say it be time for he to take he too . the bailiff , however , be afraid of the blow which he be to receive , and earnestly entreat he to excuse he from have they ; for rather than that , he himself would be head-servant , and the youth should be bailiff . `` no , '' say he , `` I will not be a bailiff , I be head-servant , and will remain so , but I will administer that which we agree on . '' the bailiff be willing to give he whatsoever he demand , but it be of no use , the head-servant say no to everything . then the bailiff do not know what to do , and beg for a fortnight 's delay , for he want to find some way of escape . the head-servant consent to this delay . the bailiff summon all he clerk together , and they be to think the matter over , and give he advice . the clerk ponder for a long time , but at last they say that no one be sure of he life with the head-servant , for he could kill a man as easily as a midge , and that the bailiff ought to make he get into the well and clean it , and when he be down below , they would roll up one of the mill-stones which be lie there , and throw it on he head ; and then he would never return to daylight . the advice please the bailiff , and the head-servant be quite willing to go down the well . when he be stand down below at the bottom , they roll down the largest mill-stone and think they have break he skull , but he cry , `` Chase away those hen from the well , they be scratch in the sand up there , and throw the grain into my eye , so that I can not see . '' so the bailiff cry , `` sh-sh , '' and pretend to frighten the hen away . when the head-servant have finish he work , he climb up and say , `` just look what a beautiful neck-tie I have on , '' and behold it be the mill-stone which he be wear round he neck . the head-servant now want to take he reward , but the bailiff again beg for a fortnight 's delay . the clerk meet together and advise he to send the head-servant to the haunt mill to grind corn by night , for from thence as yet no man have ever return in the morning alive . the proposal please the bailiff , he call the head-servant that very evening , and order he to take eight bushel of corn to the mill , and grind it that night , for it be want . so the head-servant go to the loft , and put two bushel in he right pocket , and two in he left , and take four in a wallet , half on he back , and half on he breast , and thus laden go to the haunt mill . the miller tell he that he could grind there very well by day , but not by night , for the mill be haunt , and that up to the present time whosoever have go into it at night have be find in the morning lie dead inside . he say , `` I will manage it , just you go away to bed . '' then he go into the mill , and pour out the corn . about eleven o'clock he go into the miller 's room , and sit down on the bench . when he have sit there a while , a door suddenly open , and a large table come in , and on the table , wine and roasted meat place themselves , and much good food besides , but everything come of itself , for no one be there to carry it . after this the chair push themselves up , but no people come , until all at once he behold finger , which handle knife and fork , and lay food on the plate , but with this exception he see nothing . as he be hungry , and see the food , he , too , place himself at the table , eat with those who be eating and enjoy it . when he have have enough , and the other also have quite empty they dish , he distinctly hear all the candle be suddenly snuff out , and as it be now pitch dark , he feel something like a box on the ear . then he say , `` if anything of that kind come again , I shall strike out in return . '' and when he have receive a second box on the ear , he , too strike out . and so it continue the whole night . he take nothing without return it , but repay everything with interest , and do not lay about he in vain . at daybreak , however , everything cease . when the miller have get up , he want to look after he , and wonder if he be still alive . then the youth say , `` I have eat my fill , have receive some box on the ear , but I have give some in return . '' the miller rejoice , and say that the mill be now release from the spell , and want to give he much money as a reward . but he say , `` money , I will not have , I have enough of it . '' so he take he meal on he back , go home , and tell the bailiff that he have do what he have be tell to do , and would now have the reward agree on . when the bailiff hear that , he be seriously alarmed and quite beside himself ; he walk backwards and forwards in the room , and drop of perspiration run down from he forehead . then he open the window to get some fresh air , but before he be aware , the head-servant have give he such a kick that he fly through the window out into the air , and so far away that no one ever see he again . then say the head-servant to the bailiff 's wife , `` if he do not come back , you must take the other blow . '' she cry , `` no , no I can not bear it , '' and open the other window , because drop of perspiration be run down she forehead . then he give she such a kick that she , too , fly out , and as she be lighter she go much higher than she husband . she husband cry , `` do come to I , '' but she reply , `` come thou to I , I can not come to thee . '' and they hover about there in the air , and could not get to each other , and whether they be still hover about , or not , I do not know , but the young giant take up he iron bar , and go on he way .