the bottle-neck . H. C. Andersen in a narrow crooked street , among other abode of poverty , stand a especially narrow and tall house build of timber , which time have knock about in such fashion that it seem to be out of joint in every direction . the house be inhabit by poor people , and the deepest poverty be apparent in the garret lodge in the gable , where , in front of the only window , hang a old bent birdcage , which have not even a proper water-glass , but only a bottle-neck reverse , with a cork stick in the mouth , to do duty for one . a old maid stand by the window : she have hang the cage with green chickweed ; and a little chaffinch hop from perch to perch , and sing and twitter merrily enough . `` yes , it be all very well for you to sing , '' say the bottle-neck ; that be to say , it do not pronounce the word as we can speak they , for a bottle-neck can not speak ; but that be what he think to himself in he own mind , like when we people talk quietly to ourselves . `` yes , it be all very well for you to sing , you that have all you limb uninjured . you ought to feel what it be like to lose one 's body , and to have only mouth and neck left , and to be hamper with work into the bargain , as in my case ; and then I be sure you would not sing . but after all it be well that there should be somebody at least who be merry . I have no reason to sing , and , moreover , I can not sing . Yes , when I be a whole bottle , I sing out well if they rub I with a cork . they use to call I a perfect lark , a magnificent lark ! ah , when I be out at a picnic with the tanner 's family , and he daughter be betroth ! yes , I remember it as if it have happen only yesterday . I have go through a great deal , when I come to recollect . I have be in the fire and the water , have be deep in the black earth , and have mount higher than most of the other ; and now I be hang here , outside the birdcage , in the air and the sunshine ! oh , it would be quite worth while to hear my history ; but I do not speak aloud of it , because I can not . '' and now the bottle-neck tell its story , which be sufficiently remarkable . it tell the story to itself , or only think it in its own mind ; and the little bird sing he song merrily , and down in the street there be drive and hurry , and every one thought of he own affair , or perhaps of nothing at all ; and only the bottle-neck thought . it think of the flaming furnace in the manufactory , where it have be blow into life ; it still remember that it have be quite warm , that it have glance into the hissing furnace , the home of its origin , and have feel a great desire to leap directly back again ; but that gradually it have become cooler , and have be very comfortable in the place to which it be take . it have stand in a rank with a whole regiment of brother and sister , all out of the same furnace ; some of they have certainly be blow into champagne bottle , and other into beer bottle , and that make a difference . later , out in the world , it may well happen that a beer bottle may contain the most precious wine , and a champagne bottle be fill with black ; but even in decay there be always something leave by which people can see what one have be -- nobility be nobility , even when fill with black . all the bottle be pack up , and we bottle be among they . at that time it do not think to finish its career as a bottle-neck , or that it should work its way up to be a bird 's glass , which be always a honorable thing ; for one be of some consequence , after all . the bottle do not again behold the light of day till it be unpacked with the other bottle in the cellar of the wine merchant , and rinse out for the first time ; and that be a strange sensation . there it lay , empty and without a cork , and feel strangely unwell , as if it want something , it could not tell what . at last it be fill with good costly wine , and be provide with a cork , and seal down . a ticket be place on it , mark `` first quality ; '' and it feel as if it have carry off the first prize at a examination ; for , you see , the wine be good and the bottle be good . when one be young , that be the time for poetry ! there be a singing and sound within it , of thing which it could not understand -- of green sunny mountain , whereon the grape grow , where many vine dresser , man and woman , sing and dance and rejoice . `` ah , how beautiful be life ! '' there be a singing and sound to all this in the bottle , as in a young poet 's brain ; and many a young poet do not understand the meaning of the song that be within he . one morning the bottle be buy , for the tanner 's apprentice be dispatch for a bottle of wine -- `` of the best . '' and now it be put in the provision basket , with ham and cheese and sausage ; the finest butter and the best bread be put into the basket too , the tanner 's daughter herself pack it . she be young and pretty ; she brown eye laugh , and round she mouth play a smile as elegant as that in she eye . she have delicate hand , beautifully white , and she neck be whiter still ; you see at once that she be one of the most beautiful girl in the town : and still she be not engage . the provision basket be in the lap of the young girl when the family drive out into the forest . the bottle-neck look out from the fold of the white napkin . there be red wax upon the cork , and the bottle look straight into the girl 's face . it also look at the young sailor who sit next to the girl . he be a friend of old day , the son of the portrait painter . quite lately he have pass with honor through he examination as mate , and to-morrow he be to sail away in a ship , far off to a distant land . there have be much talk of this while the basket be be pack ; and certainly the eye and mouth of the tanner 's pretty daughter do not wear a very joyous expression just then . the young people saunter through the green wood , and talk to one another . what be they talk of ? no , the bottle could not hear that , for it be in the provision basket . a long time pass before it be draw forth ; but when that happen , there have be pleasant thing go on , for all be laughing , and the tanner 's daughter laugh too ; but she speak less than before , and she cheek glow like two rose . the father take the full bottle and the corkscrew in he hand . yes , it be a strange thing to be draw thus , the first time ! the bottle-neck could never afterwards forget that impressive moment ; and indeed there be quite a convulsion within he when the cork fly out , and a great throbbing as the wine pour forth into the glass . `` Health to the betrothed pair ! '' cry the papa ; and every glass be empty to the dregs , and the young mate kiss he beautiful bride . `` happiness and blessing ! '' say the two old people , the father and mother ; and the young man fill the glass again . `` Safe return , and a wedding this day next year ! '' he cry ; and when the glass be empty , he take the bottle , raise it on high , and say , `` Thou hast be present at the happiest day of my life , thou shalt never serve another ! '' and so say he hurl it high into the air . the tanner 's daughter do not then think that she should see the bottle fly again ; and yet it be to be so . it then fall into the thick reed on the margin of a little woodland lake ; and the bottle-neck could remember quite plainly how it lay there for some time . `` I give they wine , and they give I marsh-water , '' he say ; `` but it be all mean for the best . '' he could no longer see the betrothed couple and the cheerful old people ; but for a long time he could hear they rejoice and sing . then at last come two peasant boy , and look into the reed ; they spy out the bottle , and take it up ; and now it be provide for . at they home , in the wood cottage , the eldest of these brother , who be a sailor , and about to start on a long voyage , have be the day before to take leave : the mother be just engage pack up various thing he be to take with he on he journey , and which the father be go to carry into the town that evening to see he son once more , and to give he a farewell greet for the lad 's mother and himself . a little bottle of medicated brandy have already be wrap up in a parcel , when the boy come in with a larger and stronger bottle which they have find . this bottle would hold more than the little one , and they pronounce that the brandy would be capital for a bad digestion , inasmuch as it be mix with medical herb . the draught that be now pour into the bottle be not so good as the red wine with which it have once be fill ; these be bitter drop , but even these be sometimes good . the new big bottle be to go , and not the little one ; and so the bottle go travel again . it be take on board for Peter Jensen , in the very same ship in which the young mate sail . but he do not see the bottle ; and , indeed , he would not have know it , or think it be the same one out of which they have drunk a health to the betrothed pair , and to he own happy return . -lrb-B- illustration : the bottle be PRESENT ON A JOYOUS OCCASION . aaaaa -rrb-B- aaa certainly it have no longer wine to give , but still it contain something that be just as good . accordingly , whenever Peter Jensen bring it out , it be dub by he messmate the Apothecary . it contain the best medicine , medicine that strengthen the weak , and it give liberally so long as it have a drop leave . that be a pleasant time , and the bottle sing when it be rub with the cork ; and it be call the Great Lark , `` Peter Jensen 's Lark . '' long day and month roll on , and the bottle already stand empty in a corner , when it happen -- whether on the passage out or home the bottle could not tell , for it have never be ashore -- that a storm arise ; great wave come career along , darkly and heavily , and lift and toss the ship to and fro . the mainmast be shiver , and a wave start one of the plank , and the pump become useless . it be black night . the ship sink ; but at the last moment the young mate write on a leaf of paper , `` God 's will be do ! we be sink ! '' he write the name of he betrothed , and he own name , and that of the ship , and put the leaf in a empty bottle that happen to be at hand : he cork it firmly down , and throw it out into the foam sea . he know not that it be the very bottle from which the goblet of joy and hope have once be fill for he ; and now it be toss on the wave with he last greet and the message of death . the ship sink , and the crew sink with she . the bottle speed on like a bird , for it bear a heart , a loving letter , within itself . and the sun rise and set ; and the bottle feel as at the time when it first come into be in the red gleaming oven -- it feel a strong desire to leap back into the light . it experience calm and fresh storm ; but it be hurl against no rock , and be devour by no shark ; and thus it drift on for a year and a day , sometimes towards the north , sometimes towards the south , just as the current carry it . beyond this it be its own master , but one may grow tired even of that . the write page , the last farewell of the bridegroom to he betrothed , would only bring sorrow if it come into she hand ; but where be the hand , so white and delicate , which have once spread the cloth on the fresh grass in the greenwood , on the betrothal day ? where be the tanner 's daughter ? yes , where be the land , and which land might be nearest to she dwelling ? the bottle know not ; it drive onward and onward , and be at last tired of wander , because that be not in its way ; but yet it have to travel until at last it come to land -- to a strange land . it understand not a word of what be speak here , for this be not the language it have hear speak before ; and one lose a good deal if one do not understand the language . the bottle be fish out and examine on all side . the leaf of paper within it be discover , and take out , and turn over and over , but the people do not understand what be write thereon . they see that the bottle must have be throw overboard , and that something about this be write on the paper , but what be the word ? that question remain unanswered , and the paper be put back into the bottle , and the latter be deposit in a great cupboard , in a great room , in a great house . whenever stranger come the paper be bring out , and turn over and over , so that the inscription , which be only write in pencil , become more and more illegible , so that at last no one could see that there be letter on it . and for a whole year more the bottle remain standing in the cupboard ; and then it be put into the loft , where it become cover with dust and cobweb . ah , how often it think of the better day , the time when it have pour forth red wine in the greenwood , when it have be rock on the wave of the sea , and when it have carry a secret , a letter , a parting sigh , safely enclose in its bosom . for full twenty year it stand up in the loft ; and it might have remain there longer , but that the house be to be rebuild . the roof be take off , and then the bottle be notice , and they speak about it , but it do not understand they language ; for one can not learn a language by be shut up in a loft , even if one stay there for twenty year . `` if I have be down in the room , '' think the Bottle , `` I might have learn it . '' it be now wash and rinse , and indeed this be requisite . it feel quite transparent and fresh , and as if its youth have be renew in this its old age ; but the paper it have carry so faithfully have be destroy in the wash . the bottle be fill with seed , though it scarcely know what they be . it be cork , and well wrap up . no light nor lantern be it vouchsafe to behold , much less the sun or the moon ; and yet , it think , when one go on a journey one ought to see something ; but though it see nothing , it do what be most important -- it travel to the place of its destination , and be there unpacked . `` what trouble they have take over yonder with that bottle ! '' it hear people say ; `` and yet it be most likely broken . '' but it be not break . the bottle understand every word that be now say ; this be the language it have hear at the furnace , and at the wine merchant 's , and in the forest , and in the ship , the only good old language it understand : it have come back home , and the language be as a salutation of welcome to it . for very joy it feel ready to jump out of people 's hand ; hardly do it notice that its cork have be draw , and that it have be empty and carry into the cellar , to be place there and forget . there be no place like home , even if it be in a cellar ! it never occur to the bottle to think how long it would lie there , for it feel comfortable , and accordingly lay there for year . at last people come down into the cellar to carry off all the bottle , and ours among the rest . out in the garden there be a great festival . flame lamp hang like garland , and paper lantern shine transparent , like great tulip . the evening be lovely , the weather still and clear , the star twinkle ; it be the time of the new moon , but in reality the whole moon could be see as a bluish gray disc with a golden rim round half its surface , which be a very beautiful sight for those who have good eye . the illumination extend even to the most retired of the garden walk ; at least so much of it , that one could find one 's way there . among the leaf of the hedge stand bottle , with a light in each ; and among they be also the bottle we know , and which be destine one day to finish its career as a bottle-neck , a bird 's drinking-glass . everything here appear lovely to we bottle , for it be once more in the greenwood , amid joy and feasting , and hear song and music , and the noise and murmur of a crowd , especially in that part of the garden where the lamp blaze and the paper lantern display they many color . thus it stand , in a distant walk certainly , but that make it the more important ; for it bear its light , and be at once ornamental and useful , and that be as it should be : in such a hour one forget twenty year spend in a loft , and it be right one should do so . there pass close to it a pair , like the pair who have walk together long ago in the wood , the sailor and the tanner 's daughter ; the bottle seem to experience all that over again . in the garden be walk not only the guest , but other people who be allow to view all the splendor ; and among these latter come a old maid who seem to stand alone in the world . she be just think , like the bottle , of the greenwood , and of a young betrothed pair -- of a pair which concern she very nearly , a pair in which she have a interest , and of which she have be a part , in that happiest hour of she life -- the hour one never forget , if one should become ever so old a maid . but she do not know we bottle , nor do the bottle recognize the old maid : it be thus we pass each other in the world , meeting again and again , as these two meet , now that they be together again in the same town . from the garden the bottle be dispatch once more to the wine merchant 's , where it be fill with wine , and sell to the aeronaut , who be to make a ascent in he balloon on the follow Sunday . a great crowd have assemble to witness the sight ; military music have be provide , and many other preparation have be make . the bottle see everything , from a basket in which it lay next to a live rabbit , which latter be quite bewildered because he know he be to be take up into the air , and let down again in a parachute ; but the bottle know nothing of the `` up '' or the `` down ; '' it only see the balloon swell up bigger and bigger , and at last , when it could swell no more , begin to rise , and to grow more and more restless . the rope that hold it be cut , and the huge machine float aloft with the aeronaut and the basket contain the bottle and the rabbit , and the music sound , and all the people cry , `` Hurrah ! '' `` this be a wonderful passage , up into the air ! '' think the Bottle ; `` this be a new way of sailing ; at any rate , up here we can not strike upon anything . '' thousand of people gaze up at the balloon , and the old maid look up at it also ; she stand at the open window of the garret , in which hang the cage with the little chaffinch , who have no water-glass as yet , but be oblige to be content with a old cup . in the window stand a myrtle in a pot ; and it have be put a little aside that it might not fall out , for the old maid be lean out of the window to look , and she distinctly see the aeronaut in the balloon , and how he let down the rabbit in the parachute , and then drink to the health of all the spectator , and at length hurl the bottle high in the air ; she never think that this be the identical bottle which she have already once see throw aloft in honor of she and of she friend on the day of rejoice in the greenwood , in the time of she youth . the bottle have no respite for thought ; for it be quite startle at thus suddenly reach the highest point in its career . steeple and roof lay far , far beneath , and the people look like mite . but now it begin to descend with a much more rapid fall than that of the rabbit ; the bottle throw somersault in the air , and feel quite young , and quite free and unfettered ; and yet it be half full of wine , though it do not remain so long . what a journey ! the sun shone on the bottle , all the people be look at it , the balloon be already far away , and soon the bottle be far away too ; for it fall upon a roof and break ; but the piece have get such a impetus that they could not stop themselves , but go jump and roll on till they come down into the courtyard and lay there in smaller piece yet ; the bottle-neck only manage to keep whole , and that be cut off as clean as if it have be do with a diamond . `` that would do capitally for a bird-glass , '' say the cellarman ; but they have neither a bird nor a cage ; and to expect they to provide both because they have find a bottle-neck that might be make available for a glass , would have be expect too much ; but the old maid in the garret , perhaps it might be useful to she ; and now the bottle-neck be take up to she , and be provide with a cork . the part that have be uppermost be now turn downward , as often happen when change take place ; fresh water be pour into it , and it be fasten to the cage of the little bird , which sing and twitter right merrily . `` yes , it be very well for you to sing , '' say the bottle-neck ; and it be consider remarkable for have be in the balloon -- for that be all they know of its history . now it hang there as a bird-glass , and hear the murmuring and noise of the people in the street below , and also the word of the old maid in the room within . a old friend have just come to visit she , and they talk -- not of the bottle-neck , but about the myrtle in the window . `` no , you certainly must not spend a dollar for you daughter 's bridal wreath , '' say the old maid . `` you shall have a beautiful little nosegay from I , full of blossom . Do you see how splendidly that tree have come on ? yes , that have be raise from a spray of the myrtle you give I on the day after my betrothal , and from which I be to have make my own wreath when the year be past ; but that day never come ! the eye close that be to have be my joy and delight through life . in the depths of the sea he sleep sweetly , my dear one ! the myrtle have become a old tree , and I become a yet older woman ; and when it fade at last , I take the last green shoot , and plant it in the ground , and it have become a great tree ; and now at length the myrtle will serve at the wedding -- as a wreath for you daughter . '' there be tear in the eye of the old maid . she speak of the beloved of she youth , of they betrothal in the wood ; many thought come to she , but the thought never come , that quite close to she , before the very window , be a remembrance of those time ; the neck of the bottle which have shout for joy when the cork fly out with a bang on the betrothal day . but the bottle-neck do not recognize she , for he be not listen to what this old maid say -- and still that be because he be think of she .