93 the Raven BrothersS Grimm there be once upon a time a Queen who have a little daughter who be still so young that she have to be carry . one day the child be naughty , and the mother might say what she like , but the child would not be quiet . then she become impatient , and as the raven be fly about the palace , she open the window and say , `` I wish you be a raven and would fly away , and then I should have some rest . '' scarcely have she speak the word , before the child be change into a raven , and fly from she arm out of the window . it fly into a dark forest , and stay in it a long time , and the parent hear nothing of they child . then one day a man be on he way through this forest and hear the raven cry , and follow the voice , and when he come nearer , the bird say , `` I be a king 's daughter by birth , and be bewitch , but thou canst set I free . '' `` what be I to do , '' ask he . she say , `` go further into the forest , and thou wilt find a house , wherein sit a age woman , who will offer thee meat and drink , but you must accept nothing , for if you eatest and drinkest anything , thou wilt fall into a sleep , and then thou wilt not be able to deliver I . in the garden behind the house there be a great heap of tan , and on this thou shalt stand and wait for I . for three day I will come every afternoon at two o'clock in a carriage . on the first day four white horse will be harness to it , then four chestnut horse , and lastly four black one ; but if thou art not awake , but sleep , I shall not be set free . '' the man promise to do everything that she desire , but the raven say , alas , `` I know already that thou wilt not deliver I ; thou wilt accept something from the woman . '' then the man once more promise that he would certainly not touch anything either to eat or to drink . but when he enter the house the old woman come to he and say , `` Poor man , how faint you be ; come and refresh yourself ; eat and drink . '' `` no , '' say the man , `` I will not eat or drink . '' she , however , let he have no peace , and say , `` if you will not eat , take one drink out of the glass ; one be nothing . '' then he let himself be persuade , and drank . shortly before two o'clock in the afternoon he go into the garden to the tan heap to wait for the raven . as he be stand there , he weariness all at once become so great that he could not struggle against it , and lay down for a short time , but he be determine not to go to sleep . hardly , however , have he lie down , than he eye close of they own accord , and he fall asleep and sleep so soundly that nothing in the world could have arouse he . at two o'clock the raven come drive up with four white horse , but she be already in deep grief and say , `` I know he be asleep . '' and when she come into the garden , he be indeed lie there asleep on the heap of tan . she alight from the carriage , go to he , shake he , and call he , but he do not awake . next day about noon , the old woman come again and bring he food and drink , but he would not take any of it . but she let he have no rest and persuade he until at length he again take one drink out of the glass . towards two o'clock he go into the garden to the tan heap to wait for the raven , but all at once feel such a great weariness that he limb would no longer support he . he could not help himself , and be force to lie down , and fall into a heavy sleep . when the raven drive up with four brown horse , she be already full of grief , and say , `` I know he be asleep . '' she go to he , but there he lay sleep , and there be no waken he . next day the old woman ask what be the meaning of this ? he be neither eat nor drink anything ; do he want to die ? he reply , `` I be not allow to eat or drink , and will not do so . '' but she set a dish with food , and a glass with wine before he , and when he smell it he could not resist , and swallow a deep draught . when the time come , he go out into the garden to the heap of tan , and wait for the King 's daughter ; but he become still more weary than on the day before , and lay down and sleep as soundly as if he have be a stone . at two o'clock the raven come with four black horse , and the coachman and everything else be black . she be already in the deepest grief , and say , `` I know that he be asleep and can not deliver I . '' when she come to he , there he be lie fast asleep . she shake he and call he , but she could not waken he . then she lay a loaf beside he , and after that a piece of meat , and thirdly a bottle of wine , and he might consume as much of all of they as he like , but they would never grow less . after this she take a gold ring from she finger , and put it on he , and she name be grave on it . lastly , she lay a letter beside he wherein be write what she have give he , and that none of the thing would ever grow less ; and in it be also write , `` I see right well that here you will never be able to deliver I , but if thou art still willing to deliver I , come to the golden castle of Stromberg ; it lie in thy power , of that I be certain . '' and when she have give he all these thing , she seat herself in she carriage , and drive to the golden castle of Stromberg . when the man awake and see that he have sleep , he be sad at heart , and say , `` she have certainly drive by , and I have not set she free . '' then he perceive the thing which be lie beside he , and read the letter wherein be write how everything have happen . so he arise and go away , intend to go to the golden castle of Stromberg , but he do not know where it be . after he have walk about the world for a long time , he enter into a dark forest , and walk for fourteen day , and still could not find he way out . then it be once more evening , and he be so tired that he lay down in a thicket and fall asleep . next day he go onward , and in the evening , as he be again about to lie down beneath some bush , he hear such a howling and cry that he could not go to sleep . and at the time when people light the candle , he see one glimmering , and arise and go towards it . then he come to a house which seem very small , for in front of it a great giant be stand . he think to himself , `` if I go in , and the giant see I , it will very likely cost I my life . '' at length he venture it and go in . when the giant see he , he say , `` it be well that thou comest , for it be long since I have eat ; I will at once eat thee for my supper . '' `` I would rather you would leave that alone , '' say the man , `` I do not like to be eat ; but if thou hast any desire to eat , I have quite enough here to satisfy thee . '' `` if that be true , '' say the giant , `` thou mayst be easy , I be only go to devour thee because I have nothing else . '' then they go , and sit down to the table , and the man take out the bread , wine , and meat which would never come to a end . `` this please I well , '' say the giant , and eat to he heart 's content . then the man say to he , `` Canst thou tell I where the golden castle of Stromberg be ? '' the giant say , `` I will look at my map ; all the town , and village , and house be to be find on it . '' he bring out the map which he have in the room and look for the castle , but it be not to be find on it . `` it be no matter ! '' say he , `` I have some still larger map in my cupboard upstairs , and we will look in they . '' but there , too , it be in vain . the man now want to go onward , but the giant beg he to wait a few day longer until he brother , who have go out to bring some provision , come home . when the brother come home they inquire about the golden castle of Stromberg . he reply , `` when I have eat and have have enough , I will look in the map . '' then he go with they up to he chamber , and they search in he map , but could not find it . then he bring out still older map , and they never rest until they find the golden castle of Stromberg , but it be many thousand mile away . `` how be I to get there ? '' ask the man . the giant say , `` I have two hour ' time , during which I will carry you into the neighborhood , but after that I must be at home to suckle the child that we have . '' so the giant carry the man to about a hundred league from the castle , and say , `` Thou canst very well walk the rest of the way alone . '' and he turn back , but the man go onwards day and night , until at length he come to the golden castle of Stromberg . it stand on a glass-mountain , and the bewitch maiden drive in she carriage round the castle , and then go inside it . he rejoice when he see she and want to climb up to she , but when he begin to do so he always slip down the glass again . and when he see that he could not reach she , he be fill with trouble , and say to himself , `` I will stay down here below , and wait for she . '' so he build himself a hut and stay in it for a whole year , and every day see the King 's daughter drive about above , but never could go to she . then one day he see from he hut three robber who be beat each other , and cry to they , `` God be with ye ! '' they stop when they hear the cry , but as they see no one , they once more begin to beat each other , and that too most dangerously . so he again cry , `` God be with ye ! '' again they stop , look round about , but as they see no one they go on beating each other . then he cry for the third time , `` God be with ye , '' and think , `` I must see what these three be about , '' and go thither and ask why they be beat each other so furiously . one of they say that he find a stick , and that when he strike a door with it , that door would spring open . the next say that he have find a mantle , and that whenever he put it on , he be invisible , but the third say he have find a horse on which a man could ride everywhere , even up the glass-mountain . and now they do not know whether they ought to have these thing in common , or whether they ought to divide they . then the man say , `` I will give you something in exchange for these three thing . Money indeed have I not , but I have other thing of more value ; but first I must try yours to see if you have tell the truth . '' then they put he on the horse , throw the mantle round he , and give he the stick in he hand , and when he have all these thing they be no longer able to see he . so he give they some vigorous blow and cry , `` now , vagabond , you have get what you deserve , be you satisfy ? '' and he ride up the glass-mountain , but when he come in front of the castle at the top , it be shut . then he strike the door with he stick , and it spring open immediately . he go in and ascend the stair until he come to the hall where the maiden be sit with a golden cup full of wine before she . she , however , could not see he because he have the mantle on . and when he come up to she , he draw from he finger the ring which she have give he , and throw it into the cup so that it ring . then she cry , `` that be my ring , so the man who be to set I free must be here . '' they search the whole castle and do not find he , but he have go out , and have seat himself on the horse and throw off the mantle . when they come to the door , they see he and cry aloud in they delight . \* then he alight and take the King 's daughter in he arm , but she kiss he and say , `` now hast thou set I free , and to-morrow we will celebrate we wedding . ''