the MAGIC FIDDLE Indian Writer once upon a time there live seven brother and a sister . the brother be marry , but they wife do not do the cooking for the family . it be do by they sister , who stop at home to cook . the wife for this reason bear they sister-in-law much ill-will , and at length they combine together to oust she from the office of cook and general provider , so that one of themselves might obtain it . they say , `` she do not go out to the field to work , but remain quietly at home , and yet she have not the meal ready at the proper time . '' they then call upon they Bonga , and vow vow unto he they secure he good-will and assistance ; then they say to the Bonga , `` at midday , when we sister-in-law go to bring water , cause it thus to happen , that on see she pitcher , the water shall vanish , and again slowly re-appear . in this way she will be delay . let the water not flow into she pitcher , and you may keep the maiden as you own . '' at noon when she go to bring water , it suddenly dry up before she , and she begin to weep . then after a while the water begin slowly to rise . when it reach she ankle she try to fill she pitcher , but it would not go under the water . be frightened she begin to wail and cry to she brother : `` oh ! my brother , the water reach to my ankle , still , oh ! my brother , the pitcher will not dip . '' the water continue to rise until it reach she knee , when she begin to wail again : `` oh ! my brother , the water reach to my knee , still , oh ! my brother , the pitcher will not dip . '' the water continue to rise , and when it reach she waist , she cry again : `` oh ! my brother , the water reach to my waist , still , oh ! my brother , the pitcher will not dip . '' the water still rise , and when it reach she neck she keep on cry : `` oh ! my brother , the water reach to my neck , still , oh ! my brother , the pitcher will not dip . '' at length the water become so deep that she feel herself drown , then she cry aloud : `` oh ! my brother , the water measure a man 's height , oh ! my brother , the pitcher begin to fill . '' the pitcher fill with water , and along with it she sink and be drown . the Bonga then transform she into a Bonga like himself , and carry she off . after a time she re-appeared as a bamboo grow on the embankment of the tank in which she have be drown . when the bamboo have grow to a immense size , a Jogi , who be in the habit of pass that way , see it , say to himself , `` this will make a splendid fiddle . '' so one day he bring a axe to cut it down ; but when he be about to begin , the bamboo call out , `` do not cut at the root , cut higher up . '' when he lift he axe to cut high up the stem , the bamboo cry out , `` do not cut near the top , cut at the root . '' when the Jogi again prepare himself to cut at the root as request , the bamboo say , `` do not cut at the root , cut higher up ; '' and when he be about to cut higher up , it again call out to he , `` do not cut high up , cut at the root . '' the Jogi by this time feel sure that a Bonga be try to frighten he , so become angry he cut down the bamboo at the root , and take it away make a fiddle out of it . the instrument have a superior tone and delight all who hear it . the Jogi carry it with he when he go a-begging , and through the influence of its sweet music he return home every evening with a full wallet . he now and then visit , when on he round , the house of the Bonga girl 's brother , and the strain of the fiddle affect they greatly . some of they be move even to tear , for the fiddle seem to wail as one in bitter anguish . the elder brother wish to purchase it , and offer to support the Jogi for a whole year if he would consent to part with he wonderful instrument . the Jogi , however , know its value , and refuse to sell it . it so happen that the Jogi some time after go to the house of a village chief , and after play a tune or two on he fiddle ask for something to eat . they offer to buy he fiddle and promise a high price for it , but he refuse to sell it , as he fiddle bring to he he means of livelihood . when they see that he be not to be prevail upon , they give he food and a plentiful supply of liquor . of the latter he drink so freely that he presently become intoxicated . while he be in this condition , they take away he fiddle , and substitute they own old one for it . when the Jogi recover , he miss he instrument , and suspect that it have be steal ask they to return it to he . they deny have take it , so he have to depart , leave he fiddle behind he . the chief 's son , be a musician , use to play on the Jogi 's fiddle , and in he hand the music it give forth delighted the ear of all who hear it . when all the household be absent at they labor in the field , the Bonga girl use to come out of the bamboo fiddle , and prepare the family meal . have eat she own share , she place that of the chief 's son under he bed , and cover it up to keep off the dust , re-entered the fiddle . this happen every day , the other member of the household think that some girl friend of theirs be in this manner show she interest in the young man , so they do not trouble themselves to find out how it come about . the young chief , however , be determine to watch , and see which of he girl friend be so attentive to he comfort . he say in he own mind , `` I will catch she to-day , and give she a sound beating ; she be cause I to be ashamed before the other . '' so say , he hide himself in a corner in a pile of firewood . in a short time the girl come out of the bamboo fiddle , and begin to dress she hair . have complete she toilet , she cook the meal of rice as usual , and have eat some herself , she place the young man 's portion under he bed , as before , and be about to enter the fiddle again , when he , run out from he hiding-place , catch she in he arm . the Bonga girl exclaim , `` fie ! fie ! you may be a Dom , or you may be a Hadi of some other caste with whom I can not marry . '' he say , `` no. . but from to-day , you and I be one . '' so they begin lovingly to hold converse with each other . when the other return home in the evening , they see that she be both a human being and a Bonga , and they rejoice exceedingly . now in course of time the Bonga girl 's family become very poor , and she brother on one occasion come to the chief 's house on a visit . the Bonga girl recognize they at once , but they do not know who she be . she bring they water on they arrival , and afterwards set cook rice before they . then sit down near they , she begin in wail tone to upbraid they on account of the treatment she have be subject to by they wife . she relate all that have befall she , and wind up by say , `` you must have know it all , and yet you do not interfere to save I . '' and that be all the revenge she take .