the AMOROUS COURTESAN La Fontain DAN CUPID , though the god of soft amour , in ev ` ry age work miracle a store ; can Catos change to male coquet at ease ; and fool make oracle whene'er he please ; turn wolf to sheep , and ev ` ry thing so well , that naught remain the former shape to tell : remember , Hercules , with wond ` rous pow ` r , and Polyphemus , who would man devour : the one upon a rock himself would fling , and to the wind he be ` rous ditty sing ; to cut he beard a nymph could he inspire ; and , in the water , he have he face admire . he club the other to a spindle change , to please the belle with whom he often range . a hundred instance the fact attest , but sage Boccace have one , it be confess , which seem to I , howe'er we search around , to be a sample , rarely to be find . ` Tis Chimon that I mean , a savage youth , well form in person , but the rest uncouth , a-bear in mind , but Cupid much can do , LOVE lick the cub , and decent soon he grow . a fine gallant at length the lad appear ; from whence the change ? -- fine eye he bosom cheer the pierce ray no sooner reach he sight , but all the savage take at once to flight ; he feel the tender flame ; polite become ; you 'll find howe'er , we tale be not the same . I mean to state how once a easy fair , who oft amuse the youth devoid of care , a tender flame within she heart retain , though haughty , singular , and unrestrained . not easy 'twa she favor to procure ; Rome be the place where dwell this belle impure ; the mitre and the cross with she be naught ; Though at she foot , she would give they not a thought ; and those who be not of the highest class , no moment be allow with she to pass . a member of the conclave , first in rank , to be she slave , she would scarcely deign to thank ; unless a cardinal 's gay nephew come , and then , perhaps , she would listen to he flame ; the pope himself , have he perceive she charm , would not have be too good to grace she arm . she pride appear in clothes as well as air , and on she sparkled gold and jewel rare ; in all the elegance of dress array , Embroidery and lace , she taste display . the god of soft amour behold she aim ; and seek at once she haughty soul to tame ; a roman gentleman , of finest form , soon in she bosom raise a furious storm ; Camillus be the name this youth have get ; the nymph 's be Constance , that LOVE 's arrow shot : though he be mild , good humored , and serene , no sooner Constance have he person see , and in she breast receive the urchin 's dart , than throb , and tremble fear o ` erwhelm she heart . the flame she dare declare no other way , than by those sigh , which feeling oft betray . till then , nor shame nor aught could she retain ; now all be change : -- she bashfulness be plain . as none , howe'er , could think the subtle flame would lie conceal with such a haughty dame , Camillus nothing of the kind suppose . though she incessantly by look disclose , that something unrevealed disturb the soul , and o ` er she mind have absolute control . whatever present Constance might receive , still pensive sigh she breast appear to heave : she tint of beauty too , begin to fail , and o ` er the rose , the lily to prevail . one night Camillus have a party meet , of youthful beau and belle , a charming set , and , ` mong the rest , fair Constance be a guest ; the evening pass in jollity and jest ; for few to holy converse seem inclined , and none for MethodistsS appear design : not one , but Constance , deaf to wit be find , and , on she , raillery go briskly round . the supper o ` er the company withdraw , but Constance suddenly be lose to view ; Beside a certain bed she take she seat , where no one ever dream she would retreat , and all suppose , that ill , or spirit weak , she home have run , or something wish to seek . the company retire , Camillus say , he mean to write before he go to bed , and tell he valet he might go to rest a lucky circumstance , it be confess . thus leave alone , and as the belle desire ; who , from she soul , the spark so much admire ; yet know not how the subject to disclose , or , in what way she wish to propose ; at length , with tremble accent , she reveal ; the flame she longer could not keep conceal . EXCEEDINGLY surprise Camillus seem , and scarcely could believe but what he dream ; why , hey ! say he , good lady , be it thus , with favor friend , you doubtful point discuss ? he make she sit , and then he seat regain who would have think , cry he , you here remain ; now who this hiding place to you could tell ? 'twa LOVE , fond love ! reply the beauteous belle ; and straight a blush she lovely cheek suffuse , so rare with those to cyprian revel use ; for Venus 's vot ` rie , to prank resign , another way , to get a color , find . camillus , truly , some suspicion have , that he be love , though neither fool nor mad ; nor such a novice in the paphian scene , but what he could at once some notion glean : more certain token , howsoe'er , to get , and set the lady 's feeling on the fret , by try if the gloom that o ` er she reign be only sly pretence , he coldness feign . SHE often sigh as if she heart would break ; at length love 's pierce anguish make she speak : what you will say , cry she , I can not guess , to see I thus a fervent flame confess . the very think my face with crimson dye ; my way of life no shield for this supplies ; the moment pure affection 's in the soul , no longer wanton freak the mind control . my conduct to excuse , what can I say ? O could my former life be do away , and in you recollection naught remain , but what might virtuous constancy maintain at all event , my frankness overlook , too well I see , the fatal path I take have such displeasure to you breast convey , my zeal will rather hurt than give I aid ; but hurt or not , I 'll idolize you still : beat , drive away , contemn I as you will ; or worse , if you the torment can contrive I be you 's alone , Camillus , while alive . to this harangue the wary youth reply in truth , fair lady , I could ne'er decide , to criticise what other round may do . -- ` Tis not the line I would willingly pursue ; and I will freely say , that you discourse have much surprise I , though ` ti void of force . to you it surely never can belong , to say variety in love be wrong ; besides , you sex , and decency , ` tis clear , to ev ` ry disadvantage you appear . what use this eloquence , and what you aim ? such charm alone as you 's could I inflame ; they pow ` r be great , but fully I declare , I do not like advance from the FAIR . to constance this a thunder-clap appear ; Howe'er , she in she purpose persevere . Said she , this treatment doubtless I deserve ; but still , from truth my tongue can never swerve , and if I may presume my thought to speak , the plan which I have pursue you love to seek , have never prove injurious to my cause , if still my beauty merit applause . from what you have say , and what you look express to please you sight , no charm I now possess . whence come this change ? -- to you I will refer ; till now I be admire , you must aver ; and ev ` ry one my person highly praise ; these precious gift , that admiration raise , Alas ! be flee , and since I feel LOVE 's flame , experience whisper , I be no more the same ; no longer have charm that please you eye : how happy I should feel if they would suffice ! the suppliant belle now hope to be allow one half he bed to whom she sigh be vow ; but terror close she lip ; she nothing say , Though oft she eye be to he pillow lead . to be confuse the wily stripling feign , and like a statue for a time remain . AT length he say : -- I know not what to do ; Undressing , by myself , I can not pursue . Shall I you valet call ? rejoin the fair ; on no account , say he , with look of care ; I would not have you in my chamber see , nor think that here , by night , a girl have be , you caution be enough , the belle reply : Myself between the wall and bed I 'll hide , ` Twill what you fear prevent , and ill avoid ; but bolt the door : you 'll then be not annoyed ; let no one come ; for once I 'll do my best , and as you valet act till you be undressed ; to be ` rous constance this permission grant the honor would she throbbing breast enchant . the youth to she proposal give consent , and Constance instantly to business go ; the means she use to take he clothes be such , that scarcely once he person feel she touch ; she stopt not there , but even freely choose to take from off he foot , both shoe and hose what , say you : -- with she hand do Constance this ? pray tell I what you see therein amiss ? I wish sincerely I could do the same , with one for whom I feel a tender flame . between the clothes in haste Camillus fly , without invite Constance to pursue . she think at first he mean to try she love ; but raillery , this conduct be above . he aim , howe'er more fully to unfold , she presently observe : -- ` tis very cold ; where shall I sleep ? say she : Camillus just where you please ; Constance what , on this chair ? Camillus No , no , be more at ease ; come into bed . Constance Unlace I then , I pray . Camillus I can not : I be undressed , and cold as clay : unlace yourself . -- just then the belle perceive a poinard , which anxiety relieve ; she draw it from the scabbard , cut she lace , and many part of dress design for grace , the work of month , embroidery and flow ' r now perish in the sixtieth of a hour , without regret , or seem to lament , what more than life will of the sex content . YE dame of Britain , Germany , or France , would you have do as much , through complaisance ? you would not , I be convinced : the thing be clear ; but doubtless this , at Rome , must fine appear . POOR Constance softly to the bed approach , no longer now suppose she encroach , and trust that , no stratagem again would be contrived to give she bosom pain . Camillus say : my sentiment I 'll speak ; Dissimulation I will never seek ; she who can proffer what should be deny , Shall never be admit by my side ; but if the place you approbation meet , I will not refuse you lie at my foot . FAIR Constance such reproof could not withstand , 'twa well the poinard be not in she hand ; she bosom so severely feel the smart , she would have plunge the dagger through she heart : but Hope , sweet Hope ! still flutter to she view ; and young Camillus pretty well she know ; Howe'er with such severity he speak , that e ` en the mildest saint it would provoke ; yet , in a swain so easy , gentle , kind , 'twa strange so little lenity to find . SHE place herself , as order 'd , cross the bed , and at he foot at length recline she head ; a kiss on they she venture to impress , but not too roughly , lest she should transgress : we may conjecture if he be at ease ; what victory ! to see she stoop to please ; a beauty so renowned for charm and pride , ` twould take a week , to note each trait describe ; no other fault than paleness he could trace , which give she -lrb-B- cause know -rrb-B- still higher grace . CAMILLUS stretch he leg , and on she breast familiarly allow he foot to rest ; a cushion make of what so fair appear , that envy might from ivory be fear ; then seem as if to Morpheus he incline , and on the pillow sullenly resign . at last the sigh with which she bosom heave , Gave vent to flood of tear that much relieve ; this be the end : -- Camillus silence break , and to tell the belle with please accent speak I be satisfied , say he , you love be pure ; come hither charming girl and be secure . she t ` ward he move ; Camillus near she slide ; could you , cry he , believe that what I do , be seriously the dictate of my soul , to act the brute and ev ` ry way control ? no , no , sweet fair , you know I not ` tis plain : I truly wish you fondest love to gain ; you heart I have probe , ` ti all that I desire ; Mid joy I swim ; my bosom feel the fire . you rigor now in turn you may display ; it be but fair : be bountiful I pray ; Myself from hence you lover I declare ; no woman merit more my bed to share , whatever rank , or beauty , sense or life , you equally deserve to be my wife ; you husband I 'll become ; forget the past ; Unpleasant recollection should not last . yet there be one thing which much I wish to speak the marriage must be secret that we seek ; there be no occasion reason to disclose ; what I have say I trust will you dispose , to act as I desire : you 'll find it best : -- a wedding 's like amours while unconfessed ; one THEN both husband and gallant appear , and ev ` ry wily act the bosom cheer . till we , continue he , a priest can find , be you , to trust my promise incline ? you safely may ; he 'll to he word adhere : he heart be honest , and he tongue sincere . to this fair constance answer not a word , which show , with he , she sentiment concur . the spark , no novice in the dumb assent , receive she silence fully as 'twa mean ; the rest involve in myst ` ry deep remains ; thus Constance be requitt for she pain . YE Cyprian nymph to profit turn my tale ; the god of LOVE , within he vot ` rie pale , have many , if they sentiment be know , that I would prefer for Hymen 's joy alone . my wife , not always to the spindle true , Will many thing in life , not seem to view ; by Constance and she conduct you may see how , with this theory , she act agree ; she prove the truth of what I here advance , and reap the fruit produce by complaisance , a horde of nun I know who , ev ` ry night , would such adventure wage with fond delight . perhap it will not be with ease believe , that constance from Camillus now receive , a proof of LOVE be enchant balmy sweet , a proof perhaps you 'll think she use to meet ; but ne'er till then she taste pleasure pure ; she former life no bliss could secure . you ask the cause , and sign of doubt betray : who truly love , the same will ever say .