the tongue-cut SPARROW . Japanese Writer Long , long ago in Japan there live a old man and he wife . the old man be a good , kind-hearted , hard-working old fellow , but he wife be a regular cross-patch , who spoil the happiness of she home by she scolding tongue . she be always grumble about something from morning to night . the old man have for a long time cease to take any notice of she crossness . he be out most of the day at work in the field , and as he have no child , for he amusement when he come home , he keep a tame sparrow . he love the little bird just as much as if she have be he child . when he come back at night after he hard day 's work in the open air it be he only pleasure to pet the sparrow , to talk to she and to teach she little trick , which she learn very quickly . the old man would open she cage and let she fly about the room , and they would play together . then when supper-time come , he always save some tit - bit from he meal with which to feed he little bird . now one day the old man go out to chop wood in the forest , and the old woman stop at home to wash clothes . the day before , she have make some starch , and now when she come to look for it , it be all go ; the bowl which she have fill full yesterday be quite empty . while she be wonder who could have use or steal the starch , down fly the pet sparrow , and bow she little feathered head -- a trick which she have be teach by she master -- the pretty bird chirp and say : `` it be I who have take the starch . I think it be some food put out for I in that basin , and I eat it all . if I have make a mistake I beg you to forgive I ! tweet , tweet , tweet ! '' you see from this that the sparrow be a truthful bird , and the old woman ought to have be willing to forgive she at once when she ask she pardon so nicely . but not so . the old woman have never love the sparrow , and have often quarrel with she husband for keep what she call a dirty bird about the house , say that it only make extra work for she . now she be only too delighted to have some cause of complaint against the pet . she scold and even curse the poor little bird for she bad behavior , and not content with use these harsh , unfeeling word , in a fit of rage she seize the sparrow -- who all this time have spread out she wing and bow she head before the old woman , to show how sorry she be -- and fetch the scissors and cut off the poor little bird 's tongue . `` I suppose you take my starch with that tongue ! now you may see what it be like to go without it ! `` and with these dreadful word she drive the bird away , not care in the least what might happen to it and without the smallest pity for its suffering , so unkind be she ! the old woman , after she have drive the sparrow away , make some more rice-paste , grumble all the time at the trouble , and after starch all she clothes , spread the thing on board to dry in the sun , instead of iron they as they do in England . in the evening the old man come home . as usual , on the way back he look forward to the time when he should reach he gate and see he pet come fly and chirp to meet he , ruffle out she feather to show she joy , and at last come to rest on he shoulder . but to - night the old man be very disappointed , for not even the shadow of he dear sparrow be to be see . he quicken he step , hastily draw off he straw sandal , and step on to the veranda . still no sparrow be to be see . he now feel sure that he wife , in one of she cross temper , have shut the sparrow up in its cage . so he call she and say anxiously : `` where be Suzume San -lrb-B- Miss Sparrow -rrb-B- today ? '' the old woman pretend not to know at first , and answer : `` you sparrow ? I be sure I do not know . now I come to think of it , I have not see she all the afternoon . I should not wonder if the un - grateful bird have fly away and leave you after all you petting ! '' but at last , when the old man give she no peace , but ask she again and again , insist that she must know what have happen to he pet , she confess all . she tell he crossly how the sparrow have eat the rice-paste she have specially make for starch she clothes , and how when the sparrow have confess to what she have do , in great anger she have take she scissors and cut out she tongue , and how finally she have drive the bird away and forbid she to return to the house again . then the old woman show she husband the sparrow 's tongue , say : `` here be the tongue I cut off ! horrid little bird , why do it eat all my starch ? '' `` how could you be so cruel ? oh ! how could you so cruel ? '' be all that the old man could answer . he be too kind-hearted to punish he be shrew of a wife , but he be terribly distressed at what have happen to he poor little sparrow . `` what a dreadful misfortune for my poor Suzume San to lose she tongue ! '' he say to himself . `` she will not be able to chirp any more , and surely the pain of the cutting of it out in that rough way must have make she ill ! be there nothing to be do ? '' the old man shed many tear after he cross wife have go to sleep . while he wipe away the tear with the sleeve of he cotton robe , a bright thought comfort he : he would go and look for the sparrow on the morrow . have decide this he be able to go to sleep at last . the next morning he rise early , as soon as ever the day break , and snatch a hasty breakfast , start out over the hill and through the wood , stop at every clump of bamboo to cry : `` where , oh where do my tongue-cut sparrow stay ? where , oh where , do my tongue-cut sparrow stay ! '' he never stop to rest for he noonday meal , and it be far on in the afternoon when he find himself near a large bamboo wood . Bamboo grove be the favorite haunt of sparrow , and there sure enough at the edge of the wood he see he own dear sparrow wait to welcome he . he could hardly believe he eye for joy , and run forward quickly to greet she . she bow she little head and go through a number of the trick she master have teach she , to show she pleasure at see she old friend again , and , wonderful to relate , she could talk as of old . the old man tell she how sorry he be for all that have happen , and inquire after she tongue , wonder how she could speak so well without it . then the sparrow open she beak and show he that a new tongue have grow in place of the old one , and beg he not to think any more about the past , for she be quite well now . then the old man know that he sparrow be a fairy , and no common bird . it would be difficult to exaggerate the old man 's rejoice now . he forget all he trouble , he forget even how tired he be , for he have find he lost sparrow , and instead of be ill and without a tongue as he have fear and expect to find she , she be well and happy and with a new tongue , and without a sign of the ill-treatment she have receive from he wife . and above all she be a fairy . the sparrow ask he to follow she , and fly before he she lead he to a beautiful house in the heart of the bamboo grove . the old man be utterly astonish when he enter the house to find what a beautiful place it be . it be build of the whitest wood , the soft cream-colored mat which take the place of carpet be the finest he have ever see , and the cushion that the sparrow bring out for he to sit on be make of the finest silk and crape . beautiful vase and lacquer box adorn the tokonoma -lrb-B- footnote : a alcove where precious object be display . -rrb-B- of every room . the sparrow lead the old man to the place of honor , and then , take she place at a humble distance , she thank he with many polite bow for all the kindness he have show she for many long year . then the Lady Sparrow , as we will now call she , introduce all she family to the old man . this do , she daughter , robe in dainty crape gown , bring in on beautiful old-fashioned tray a feast of all kind of delicious food , till the old man begin to think he must be dream . in the middle of the dinner some of the sparrow 's daughter perform a wonderful dance , call the `` suzume-odori '' or the `` Sparrow 's dance , '' to amuse the guest . never have the old man enjoy himself so much . the hour fly by too quickly in this lovely spot , with all these fairy sparrow to wait upon he and to feast he and to dance before he . but the night come on and the darkness remind he that he have a long way to go and must think about take he leave and return home . he thank he kind hostess for she splendid entertainment , and beg she for he sake to forget all she have suffer at the hand of he cross old wife . he tell the Lady Sparrow that it be a great comfort and happiness to he to find she in such a beautiful home and to know that she want for nothing . it be he anxiety to know how she fare and what have really happen to she that have lead he to seek she . now he know that all be well he could return home with a light heart . if ever she want he for anything she have only to send for he and he would come at once . the Lady Sparrow beg he to stay and rest several day and enjoy the change , but the old man say he must return to he old wife -- who would probably be cross at he not come home at the usual time -- and to he work , and there-fore , much as he wish to do so , he could not accept she kind invitation . but now that he know where the Lady Sparrow live he would come to see she whenever he have the time . when the Lady Sparrow see that she could not persuade the old man to stay longer , she give a order to some of she servant , and they at once bring in two box , one large and the other small . these be place before the old man , and the Lady Sparrow ask he to choose whichever he like for a present , which she wish to give he . the old man could not refuse this kind proposal , and he choose the smaller box , say : `` I be now too old and feeble to carry the big and heavy box . as you be so kind as to say that I may take whichever I like , I will choose the small one , which will be easier for I to carry . '' then the sparrow all help he put it on he back and go to the gate to see he off , bid he good-by with many bow and entreat he to come again whenever he have the time . thus the old man and he pet sparrow separate quite happily , the sparrow show not the least ill-will for all the unkindness she have suffer at the hand of the old wife . indeed , she only feel sorrow for the old man who have to put up with it all he life . when the old man reach home he find he wife even crosser than usual , for it be late on in the night and she have be wait up for he for a long time `` where have you be all this time ? '' she ask in a big voice . `` why do you come back so late ? '' the old man try to pacify she by show she the box of present he have bring back with he , and then he tell she of all that have happen to he , and how wonderfully he have be entertain at the sparrow 's house . `` now let we see what be in the box , '' say the old man , not give she time to grumble again . `` you must help I open it . '' and they both sit down before the box and open it . to they utter astonishment they find the box fill to the brim with gold and silver coin and many other precious thing . the mat of they little cottage fairly glitter as they take out the thing one by one and put they down and handle they over and over again . the old man be overjoy at the sight of the riches that be now he . beyond he brightest expectation be the sparrow 's gift , which would enable he to give up work and live in ease and comfort the rest of he day . he say : `` thanks to my good little sparrow ! thanks to my good little sparrow ! '' many time . but the old woman , after the first moment of surprise and satisfaction at the sight of the gold and silver be over , could not suppress the greed of she wicked nature . she now begin to reproach the old man for not have bring home the big box of present , for in the innocence of he heart he have tell she how he have refuse the large box of present which the sparrow have offer he , prefer the smaller one because it be light and easy to carry home . `` you silly old man , '' say she , `` why do you not bring the large box ? just think what we have lose . we might have have twice as much silver and gold as this . you be certainly a old fool ! '' she scream , and then go to bed as angry as she could be . the old man now wish that he have say nothing about the big box , but it be too late ; the greedy old woman , not contented with the good luck which have so unexpectedly befall they and which she so little deserve , make up she mind , if possible , to get more . early the next morning she get up and make the old man describe the way to the sparrow 's house . when he see what be in she mind he try to keep she from go , but it be useless . she would not listen to one word he say . it be strange that the old woman do not feel ashamed of go to see the sparrow after the cruel way she have treat she in cut off she tongue in a fit of rage . but she greed to get the big box make she forget everything else . it do not even enter she thought that the sparrow might be angry with she -- as , indeed , they be -- and might punish she for what she have do . ever since the Lady Sparrow have return home in the sad plight in which they have first find she , weep and bleed from the mouth , she whole family and relation have do little else but speak of the cruelty of the old woman . `` how could she , '' they ask each other , `` inflict such a heavy punishment for such a trifle offense as that of eat some rice-paste by mistake ? '' they all love the old man who be so kind and good and patient under all he trouble , but the old woman they hate , and they determine , if ever they have the chance , to punish she as she deserve . they have not long to wait . after walk for some hour the old woman have at last find the bamboo grove which she have make she husband carefully describe , and now she stand before it cry out : `` where be the tongue-cut sparrow 's house ? where be the tongue-cut sparrow 's house ? '' at last she see the eaves of the house peep out from amongst the bamboo foliage . she hasten to the door and knock loudly . when the servant tell the Lady Sparrow that she old mistress be at the door ask to see she , she be somewhat surprise at the unexpected visit , after all that have take place , and she wonder not a little at the boldness of the old woman in venture to come to the house . the Lady Sparrow , however , be a polite bird , and so she go out to greet the old woman , remember that she have once be she mistress . the old woman intend , however , to waste no time in word , she go right to the point , without the least shame , and say : `` you need not trouble to entertain I as you do my old man . I have come myself to get the box which he so stupidly leave behind . I shall soon take my leave if you will give I the big box -- that be all I want ! '' the Lady Sparrow at once consent , and tell she servant to bring out the big box . the old woman eagerly seize it and hoist it on she back , and without even stop to thank the Lady Sparrow begin to hurry homeward . the box be so heavy that she could not walk fast , much less run , as she would have like to do , so anxious be she to get home and see what be inside the box , but she have often to sit down and rest herself by the way . while she be staggering along under the heavy load , she desire to open the box become too great to be resist . she could wait no longer , for she suppose this big box to be full of gold and silver and precious jewel like the small one she husband have receive . at last this greedy and selfish old woman put down the box by the wayside and open it carefully , expect to gloat she eye on a mine of wealth . what she see , however , so terrify she that she nearly lose she sens . as soon as she lift the lid , a number of horrible and frightful look demon bounce out of the box and surround she as if they intend to kill she . not even in nightmare have she ever see such horrible creature as she much - coveted box contain . a demon with one huge eye right in the middle of its forehead come and glare at she , monster with gaping mouth look as if they would devour she , a huge snake coil and hiss about she , and a big frog hop and croak towards she . the old woman have never be so frightened in she life , and run from the spot as fast as she quake leg would carry she , glad to escape alive . when she reach home she fall to the floor and tell she husband with tear all that have happen to she , and how she have be nearly kill by the demon in the box . then she begin to blame the sparrow , but the old man stop she at once , say : `` do not blame the sparrow , it be you wickedness which have at last meet with its reward . I only hope this may be a lesson to you in the future ! '' the old woman say nothing more , and from that day she repent of she cross , unkind way , and by degree become a good old woman , so that she husband hardly know she to be the same person , and they spend they last day together happily , free from want or care , spend carefully the treasure the old man have receive from he pet , the tongue-cut sparrow .