62 the Queen Bee BrothersS Grimm two king ' son once go out in search of adventure , and fall into a wild , disorderly way of living , so that they never come home again . the youngest , who be call Simpleton , set out to seek he brother , but when at length he find they they mock he for think that he with he simplicity could get through the world , when they two could not make they way , and yet be so much cleverer . they all three travel away together , and come to a ant-hill . the two elder want to destroy it , to see the little ant creep about in they terror , and carry they egg away , but Simpleton say , `` leave the creature in peace ; I will not allow you to disturb they . '' then they go onward and come to a lake , on which a great number of duck be swimming . the two brother want to catch a couple and roast they , but Simpleton would not permit it , and say , `` leave the creature in peace , I will not suffer you to kill they . '' at length they come to a bee 's nest , in which there be so much honey that it run out of the trunk of the tree where it be . the two want to make a fire beneath the tree , and suffocate the bee in order to take away the honey , but Simpleton again stop they and say , `` leave the creature in peace , I will not allow you to burn they . '' at length the three brother arrive at a castle where stone horse be stand in the stable , and no human being be to be see , and they go through all the hall until , quite at the end , they come to a door in which be three lock . in the middle of the door , however , there be a little pane , through which they could see into the room . there they see a little gray man , who be sit at a table . they call he , once , twice , but he do not hear ; at last they call he for the third time , when he get up , open the lock , and come out . he say nothing , however , but conduct they to a handsomely-spread table , and when they have eat and drunk , he take each of they to a bedroom . next morning the little gray man come to the eldest , beckon to he , and conduct he to a stone table , on which be inscribe three task , by the performance of which the castle could be deliver . the first be that in the forest , beneath the moss , lay the princess 's pearl , a thousand in number , which must be pick up , and if by sunset one single pearl be want , he who have look for they would be turn into stone . the eldest go thither , and seek the whole day , but when it come to a end , he have only find one hundred , and what be write on the table come to pass , and he be change into stone . next day , the second brother undertake the adventure ; it do not , however , fare much better with he than with the eldest ; he do not find more than two hundred pearl , and be change to stone . at last the turn come to Simpleton also , who seek in the moss . it be , however , so hard to find the pearl , and he get on so slowly , that he seat himself on a stone , and weep . and while he be thus sit , the King of the ant whose life he have once save , come with five thousand ant , and before long the little creature have get all the pearl together , and lay they in a heap . the second task , however , be to fetch out of the lake the key of the King 's daughter 's bed-chamber . when Simpleton come to the lake , the duck which he have save , swim up to he , dive down , and bring the key out of the water . but the third task be the most difficult ; from amongst the three sleep daughter of the King be the youngest and dearest to be seek out . they , however , resemble each other exactly , and be only to be distinguish by they have eat different sweetmeat before they fall asleep ; the eldest a bit of sugar ; the second a little syrup ; and the youngest a spoonful of honey . then the Queen of the bee , which Simpleton have protect from the fire , come and taste the lip of all three , and at last she remain sit on the mouth which have eat honey , and thus the King 's son recognize the right princess . then the enchantment be at a end ; everything be release from sleep , and those who have be turn to stone receive once more they natural form . Simpleton marry the youngest and sweetest princess , and after she father 's death become King , and he two brother receive the two other sister .