the LITTLE BELL La Fontain HOW weak be man ! how changeable he mind ! he promise be naught , too oft we find ; I vow -lrb-B- I hope in tolerable verse , -rrb-B- again no idle story to rehearse . and whence this promise ? -- not two day ago ; I be quite confound ; better I should know : a rhymer hear then , who himself can boast , quite steady for -- a minute at the most . the pow ` r above could prudence ne'er design ; for those who fondly court the sister nine . some mean to please they have get , you will confess ; but none with certainty the charm possess . if , howsoever , I be doom to find such line as fully would content the mind : though I should fail in matter , still in art ; I might contrive some pleasure to impart . LET be see what we be able to obtain : -- a bachelor reside in Touraine . a sprightly youth , who oft the maid beset , and like to prattle to the girl he meet , with sparkling eye , white tooth , and easy air , Plain russet petticoat and flow hair , beside a rivulet , while Io round , with little bell that give a tinkling sound , on herb she palate gratify at will , and gaze and play , and fondly take she fill . among the rustic nymph we spark perceive a charming girl , for whom he bosom heave ; too young , however , to feel the poignant smart , by cupid oft inflict on the heart . I will not say thirteen 's a age unfit the contrary most fully I admit ; the law suppose -lrb-B- such its prudent fear -rrb-B- maturity at still more early year ; but this apparently refer to town , while LOVE be bear for grove , and lawn , and downs . the youth exert ev ` ry art to please ; but all in vain : he only seem to teaze : whate'er he say , however nicely grace , ill-humour , inexperience , or distaste , induce the belle , unlearned in Cupid 's book ; to treat he passion with a froward look . believe ev ` ry artifice in love be tolerate by the pow ` r above , one eve he turn a heifer from the rest ; conduct by the girl he thought possess ; the other leave , not count by the fair , -lrb-B- youth seldom show the necessary care , -rrb-B- with easy , loit ` ring step the cottage seek , where ev ` ry night they usually be bring . HER mother , more experienced than the maid , Observed , that from the cattle one have stray ; the girl be scold much , and send to find the heifer indiscreetly leave behind . Fair Isabella give a vent to tear ; invoke sweet echo to disperse she fear : solicit with fervent , pierce cry , to tell she where lorn Io she might spy , whose little bell the spark deprive of sound ; when he withdraw she from the herd around . the lover now the tinkling metal shake ; the path that t ` ward it lead the charmer take . the well know note be please to she ear ; without suspect treachery be near , she follow to a wood , both deep and large , in hope at least she might regain she charge . GUESS she surprise , good reader , when she hear , a lover 's voice , who would not be deter . Said he , fair maid whene'er the heart 's on fire , ` ti all permit that can quench desire . on this , with pierce cry she rent the air ; but no one come : -- she sink to dire despair . YE beauteous dame avoid the Sylvan shade ; dread danger solitary wood pervade .