185 the Poor Boy in the Grave BrothersS Grimm there be once a poor shepherd-boy whose father and mother be dead , and he be place by the authority in the house of a rich man , who be to feed he and bring he up . the man and he wife , have however , bad heart , and be greedy and anxious about they riches , and vex whenever any one put a morsel of they bread in he mouth . the poor young fellow might do what he like , he get little to eat , but only so many blow the more . one day he have to watch a hen and she chicken , but she run through a quick-set hedge with they , and a hawk dart down instantly , and carry she off through the air . the boy call , `` thief ! thief ! rascal ! '' with all the strength of he body . but what good do that do ? the hawk do not bring its prey back again . the man hear the noise , and run to the spot , and as soon as he see that he hen be go , he fall in a rage , and give the boy such a beating that he could not stir for two day . then he have to take care of the chicken without the hen , but now he difficulty be greater , for one run here and the other there . he think he be do a very wise thing when he tie they all together with a string , because then the hawk would not be able to steal any of they away from he . but he be very much mistake . after two day , worn out with run about and hunger , he fall asleep ; the bird of prey come , and seize one of the chicken , and as the other be tie fast to it , it carry they all off together , perch itself on a tree , and devour they . the farmer be just come home , and when he see the misfortune , he get angry and beat the boy so unmercifully that he be force to lie in bed for several day . when he be on he leg again , the farmer say to he , `` Thou art too stupid for I , I can not make a herdsman of thee , thou must go as errand-boy . '' then he send he to the judge , to whom he be to carry a basketful of grape , and he give he a letter as well . on the way hunger and thirst torment the unhappy boy so violently that he eat two of the bunch of grape . he take the basket to the judge , but when the judge have read the letter , and count the bunch he say , `` two cluster be want . '' the boy confess quite honestly that , drive by hunger and thirst , he have devour the two which be want . the judge write a letter to the farmer , and ask for the same number of grape again . these also the boy have to take to he with a letter . as he again be so extremely hungry and thirsty , he could not help it , and again eat two bunch . but first he take the letter out of the basket , put it under a stone and seat himself thereon in order that the letter might not see and betray he . the judge , however , again make he give a explanation about the miss bunch . `` ah , '' say the boy , `` how have you learn that ? the letter could not know about it , for I put it under a stone before I do it . '' the judge could not help laugh at the boy 's simplicity , and send the man a letter wherein he caution he to keep the poor boy better , and not let he want for meat and drink , and also that he be to teach he what be right and what be wrong . `` I will soon show thee the difference , '' say the hard man , `` if thou wilt eat , thou must work , and if thou dost anything wrong , thou shalt be quite sufficiently teach by blow . '' the next day he set he a hard task . he be to chop two bundle of straw for food for the horse , and then the man threaten : `` in five hour , '' say he , `` I shall be back again , and if the straw be not cut to chaff by that time , I will beat thee until thou canst not move a limb . '' the farmer go with he wife , the man-servant and the girl , to the yearly fair , and leave nothing behind for the boy but a small bit of bread . the boy seat himself on the bench , and begin to work with all he might . as he get warm over it he put he little coat off and throw it on the straw . in he terror lest he should not get do in time he keep constantly cut , and in he haste , without notice it , he chop he little coat as well as the straw . he become aware of the misfortune too late ; there be no repair it . `` ah , '' cry he , `` now all be over with I ! the wicked man do not threaten I for nothing ; if he come back and see what I have do , he will kill I . rather than that I will take my own life . '' the boy have once hear the farmer 's wife say , `` I have a pot with poison in it under my bed . '' she , however , have only say that to keep away greedy people , for there be honey in it . the boy creep under the bed , bring out the pot , and eat all that be in it . `` I do not know , '' say he , `` folk say death be bitter , but it taste very sweet to I . it be no wonder that the farmer 's wife have so often long for death . '' he seat himself in a little chair , and be prepare to die . but instead of become weaker he feel himself strengthen by the nourishing food . `` it can not have be poison , '' think he , `` but the farmer once say there be a small bottle of poison for fly in the box in which he keep he clothes ; that , no doubt , will be the true poison , and bring death to I . '' it be , however , no poison for fly , but hungarian wine . the boy get out the bottle , and empty it . `` this death taste sweet too , '' say he , but shortly after when the wine begin to mount into he brain and stupefy he , he think he end be draw near . `` I feel that I must die , '' say he , `` I will go away to the churchyard , and seek a grave . '' he stagger out , reach the churchyard , and lay himself in a newly dig grave . he lose he sens more and more . in the neighborhood be a inn where a wedding be be keep ; when he hear the music , he fancy he be already in Paradise , until at length he lose all consciousness . the poor boy never awake again ; the heat of the strong wine and the cold night-dew deprive he of life , and he remain in the grave in which he have lay himself . when the farmer hear the news of the boy 's death he be terrify , and afraid of be bring to justice indeed , he distress take such a powerful hold of he that he fall faint to the ground . he wife , who be stand on the hearth with a pan of hot fat , run to he to help he . but the flame dart against the pan , the whole house catch fire , in a few hour it lay in ash , and the rest of the year they have to live they pass in poverty and misery , torment by the pang of conscience .