the CONTRACT La Fontain the husband 's dire mishap , and silly maid , in ev ` ry age , have prove the fable 's aid ; the fertile subject never will be dry : ` Tis inexhaustible , you may rely . no man 's exempt from evil such as these : -- who think himself secure , but little see . one laugh at sly intrigue who , ere ` tis long , May , in he turn , be sneer at by the throng : with such vicissitude , to be cast down , AppearsS rank nonsense worthy Folly 's crown . he , whose adventure I be about to write , in he mischance , -- find what give delight . a CERTAIN Citizen , with fortune large , when settle with a handsome wife in charge , not long attend for the marriage fruit : the lady soon put matter ` yond dispute ; produce a girl at first , and then a boy , to fill th ' expect parent 's breast with joy . the son , when grow of size , a tutor have , no pedant rude , with greek and latin mad , but young and smart , a master too of art , particularly learn in what impart , the gentle flame , the please poignant pang , that Ovid formerly so sweetly sing . some knowledge of good company he would get ; a charming voice and manner be he lot ; and if we may disclose the mystick truth , 'Twas Cupid who preceptor make the youth . he with the brother solely take a place , that better he the sister 's charm might trace ; and under this disguise he fully gain what he desire , so well he part he feign : a able master , or a lover true , to teach or sigh , whichever be in view , so thoroughly he could attention get , Success alike in ev ` ry thing he meet . in little time the boy could construe well the ode of Horace : -- Virgil 's fable tell ; and she whose beauty catch the tutor 's eye , a perfect mistress get of heave sigh . so oft she practice what the master teach , she stomach feeble grow , whate'er be seek ; and strange suspicion of the cause arise , which Time at length be drive to disclose . most terribly the father rage and swear ; we learn master , frightened , leave the door , the lady wish to take the youth for life ; the spark desire to make the girl he wife ; both have the Hymeneal knot in view , and mutual soft affection fondly know . at present love be little more than name : in matrimony , gold 's the only aim . the belle be rich , while he have nothing get ; for he 'twa great : -- for she a narrow lot . O DIRE corruption , age of wretched way ! what strange caprice such management display ! Shall we permit this fatal pow ` r to reign ? Base int ` rest 's impulse : hideous modern stain ; the curse of ev ` ry tender soft delight , that charm the soul and fascinate the sight . BUT truce to moral ; let 's we tale resume ; the daughter scare ; the father in a fume ; what could be do the evil to repair , and hide the sad misfortune of the fair ? what method seek ? -- they marry she in haste ; but not to he who have the belle debased , for reason I have sufficiently detail ; to gain she hand a certain wight prevail , who store of riches relish far above the charm of beauty , warm with fondest love . Save this the man might well enough be think : in family and wealth just what be seek ; but whether fool or not , I can not trace , since he be unacquainted with the case ; and if he would know it , be the bargain bad ? Full twenty thousand pound he with she have a sprightly youthful wife to ease he care , and with he ev ` ry luxury to share . HOW many tempt by the golden ore , have take wife whose slip they know before ; and this good man the lady chaste believe , so truly well she manage and deceive . but when four month have pass , the fair-one show . how very much she to she lesson owe ; a little girl arrive : the husband stare Cried he , what father of a child declare ! the time 's too short : four month ! I be take in ! a family should not so soon begin . away he to the lady 's father fly , and of he shame a horrid picture draw ; propose to be divorce : much rage disclose ; the parent smile and say , pray be compose ; speak not so loud : we may be overheard , and privacy be much to be prefer . a son-in-law , like you , I once appear , and similar misfortune justly fear ; Complaint I make , and mention a divorce ; of heat and rage the ordinary course . the father of my wife , who be now no more , -lrb-B- Heav ` n guard he soul , the loss I oft deplore , -rrb-B- a prudent honest man as any round , to calm my mind , a nice specifick find ; the pill be rather bitter , I admit ; but gilding make it for the stomach fit , which he know how to manage very well : no doctor in it he could e ` er excel ; to satisfy my scruple he display a contract -lrb-B- duly stamp and ably make -rrb-B- , four thousand to secure , which he have get , on similar occasion for a blot ; he lady 's father give it to efface Domestick diff ` rence and like disgrace : with this my spouse 's fortune he increase ; and instantly my dire complain cease . from family to family the deed should pass , ` twill often prove a useful meed ; I keep it for the purpose : -- do the same you daughter , marry , may have equal blame . on this the son-in-law the bond receive , and , with a bow , depart much relieve . MAY Heav ` n preserve from trouble those who find , at cheaper rate , to be console inclined .