the case of CONSCIENCE La Fontain those who in fable deal , bestow at ease both name and title , freely as they please . it cost they scarcely any thing , we find . and each be nymph or shepherdess design ; some e ` en be goddess , that move below , from whom celestial bliss of course must flow . THIS Horace follow , with superior art : -- if , to the trav ` ller 's bed , with throb heart , the chambermaid approach , 'twa Ilia find , or fair Egeria , or some nymph renowned . GOD , in he goodness , make , one lovely day , Apollo , who direct the lyrick lay , and give he pow ` r to call and name at will , like father Adam , with primordial skill . Said he , go , name bestow that please the ear ; in ev ` ry word let sweetest sound appear . this ancient law then prove , by right divine , WE oft be sponsor to the royal line . when please tale and fable I endite , I , who in humble verse presume to write , May surely use this privilege of old , and , to my fancy , appellation mould . if I , instead of Anne , should Sylvia say , and Master Thomas -lrb-B- when the case I weigh -rrb-B- should change to Adamas , the druid sage , must I a fine or punishment engage ? no , surely not : -- at present I shall choose Anne and the Parson for my tale to use . within she village , Anne be think the belle , and ev ` ry other charmer to excel . as near a river once she chance to stray , she see a youth in Nature 's pure array , who bath at ease within the glide stream ; the girl be brisk , and worthy of esteem , she eye be please ; the object give delight ; not one defect could be produce in sight ; already , by the shepherdess adore , if with the belle to please flight he would soar , the god of love have all they wish conceal none better know what should not be reveal . Anne nothing fear : the willow be she shade , which , like venetian blind , a cov ` ring make ; she eye , howe'er , across have easy view , and , o ` er the youth , each beauty could pursue . SHE back four pace draw , at first , through shame ; then , lead by LOVE , eight other forward come ; but scruple still arise that ardor foiled , and nearly ey ` ry thing have truly spoil . Anne have a conscience pure as holy fire ; but how could she abstain from soft desire ? if , in the bosom chance a flame should raise , be there a pow ` r can then subdue the blaze ? at first these inclination she withstand ; but doubt soon , how those of flesh and blood could sin commit by step in advance , she take she seat upon the green expanse , and there attentively the lad observe , with eye that scarcely from he ever swerve . PERHAPS you have see , from Nature , drawing make ? some Eve , or Adam , artist then persuade , in birth-attire to stand within they view , while they with care and taste each trait pursue ; and , like we shepherdess , they station take , a perfect semblance ev ` ry way to make . ANNE in she mem ` ry now he image place ; each line and feature thoroughly she trace , and even now the fair would there remain , if William -lrb-B- so be call this youthful swain -rrb-B- have not the water leave ; when she retire , Though scarcely twenty step from he admire , who , more alert than usual then appear , and , by the belle , in silence be revere . when such sensation once be in the breast , Love there we may believe would hardly rest . the favor anne reserve he think he own , though expectation oft away have fly . the more of this I think , the less I know ; perhaps one half we bliss to chance we owe ! be this as ` twill , the conscientious Anne would nothing venture to regale she man ; Howe'er , she state what have raise she fear , and ev ` ry thing that make she persevere . when Easter come , new difficulty rise then , in confession , ALL she should disclose . Anne , pass peccadillo in review , this case aside , as a intruder throw ; but parson Thomas make she all relate ; and ev ` ry circumstance most clearly state ; that he , by know fully each defect , might punishment accordingly direct , in which no father-confessor should err , who absolution justly would confer . the parson much he penitent abused ; Said he , with sensual view to be amuse , be such a sin , ` tis scarcely worse to steal ; the sight be just the same as if you feel . HOWE ` ER , the punishment that he impose be nothing great : -- too slight to be disclose ; Enough to say , that in the country round , the father-confessors , who there abound , as in we own , -lrb-B- perhaps in ev ` ry part , -rrb-B- have devotee , who , when they ought to smart , a tribute pay , accord to they lot , and thus indulgence be often get . THIS tribute to discharge the current year , much trouble Anne , and fill she breast with fear , when William , fishing , chance a pike to hook , and give it to he dear at once to cook , who , quite delighted , hasten to the priest , and beg he rev ` rence on the fish to feast . the parson with the present much be please ; a tap upon the shoulder care appease ; and with a smile he to the bringer say this fish , with trifle on the table spread , Will all complete ; 'twa holyday we find , when other clergy with we rector dine . Will you still more oblige , the parson cry , and let the fish at home by you be fry ? then bring it here : -- my servant 's very new , and can not attempt to cook as well as you . Anne hasten back ; meanwhile the priest arrive , much noise , and rout of course , once these be hive ; wine from the vault be bring without delay ; each of the quality would something say . the dinner serve ; the dean at table place ; they conversation various point embrace ; to state the whole would clearly endless be ; in this no doubt the reader will agree . they change and change , and health go round and round ; no time for scandal while such cheer be find ; the first and second course away be clear , Dessert serve up , yet still no pike appear . the dinner o ` er without th ' expect dish , or even a shadow of the promised fish . when William learn the present Anne have make , he wish , to have it cancel , with she weigh . the rector be surprise , you may suppose , and , soon as from the table all arise , he go to anne , and call she fool and knave , and , in he wrath , could scarcely secret wave , but nearly she reproach the bathing scene ; what , treat , say he , you priest like base and mean ? ANNE archly answer , with expression neat : -- the sight be just the same as if you eat !