the story of the king be SON . Arabian Writer I be scarcely past my infancy when the king my father perceive that I be endow with a great deal of sense , and spare nothing in improve it ; he employ all the man in he dominion that excel in science and art to be constantly about I . no sooner be I able to read and write than I learn the Koran from the beginning to the end by heart ; that admirable book which contain the foundation , the precept , and the rule of we religion ; and that I might be thoroughly instruct in it , I read the work of the most approved author , by whose commentary it have be explain . I add to this study that of all the tradition collect from the mouth of we Prophet by the great man that be contemporary with he . I be not satisfy with the knowledge of all that have any relation to we religion , but make also a particular search into we history . I make myself perfect in polite learning , in the work of poet , and in versification . I apply myself to geography , chronology , and to speak we Arabic tongue in its purity . but one thing which I be fond of and succeed in to a special degree be to form the character of we write language , wherein I surpass all the writing master of we kingdom that have acquire the greatest reputation . Fame do I more honor than I deserve , for she not only spread the renown of my talent through all the dominion of the king my father , but carry it as far as the indian court , whose potent monarch , desirous to see I , send a ambassador with rich present to demand I of my father , who be extremely glad of this embassy for several reason ; he be persuade that nothing could be more commendable in a prince of my age than to travel and visit foreign court , and he be very glad to gain the friendship of the indian sultan . I depart with the ambassador , but with no great retinue , because of the length and difficulty of the journey . when we have travel about a month , we discover at a distance a great cloud of dust , and under that we very soon see fifty horseman , well armed , that be robber , come towards we at full gallop . as we have ten horse laden with baggage and present that I be to carry to the indian sultan from the king my father , and my retinue be but small , these robber come boldly up to we . not be in a position to make any resistance , we tell they that we be ambassador belong to the Sultan of the Indies , and hope they would attempt nothing contrary to that respect which be due to he , think by this mean to save we equipage and we life . but the robber most insolently reply , ` for what reason would you have we show any respect to the sultan you master ? we be none of he subject , nor be we upon he territory . ' have speak thus , they surround and fall upon we . I defend myself as long as I could , but find myself wound , and see the ambassador with he servant and mine lie on the ground , I make use of what strength be yet remain in my horse , who be also very much wound , separate myself from the crowd , and ride away as fast as he could carry I ; but he happen all of a sudden to give way under I , through weariness and loss of blood , and fall down dead . I get rid of he in a trice , and find that I be not pursue , it make I judge that the robber be not willing to quit the booty they have get . here you see I alone , wound , destitute of help , and in a strange country : I dare not betake myself to the high road , lest I might fall again into the hand of these robber . when I have bind up my wound , which be not dangerous , I walk on for the rest of the day , and arrive at the foot of a mountain , where I perceive a passage into a cave : I go in , and stay there that night with little satisfaction , after I have eat some fruit that I gather by the way . I continue my journey for several day without find any place of abode ; but after a month 's time , I come to a large town , well inhabit , and situate so advantageously , as it be surround with several river , that it enjoy perpetual spring . the pleasant object which then present themselves to my eye afford I joy , and suspend for a time the sorrow with which I be overwhelm to find myself in such a condition . my face , hand and foot be black and sunburnt ; and , owe to my long journey , my shoe and stocking be quite worn out , so that I be force to walk bare-footed , and , besides , my clothes be all in rag . I enter into the town to learn where I be , and address myself to a tailor that be at work in he shop ; who , perceive by my air that I be a person of more note than my outward appearance bespoke I to be , make I sit down by he , and ask I who I be , from whence I come , and what have bring I thither ? I do not conceal anything that have befall I . the tailor listen with attention to my word ; but after I have do speaking , instead of give I any consolation , he augment my sorrow . ` take heed , ' say he , ` how you discover to any person what you have now declare to I ; for the prince of this country be the greatest enemy that the king you father have , and he will certainly do you some mischief when he come to hear of you be in this city . ' I make no doubt of the tailor 's sincerity , when he name the prince , and return he thanks for he good advice : and as he believe I could not but be hungry , he order something to be bring for I to eat , and offer I at the same time a lodging in he house , which I accept . some day after , find I pretty well recover from the fatigue I have endure by a long and tedious journey , and reflect that most prince of we religion apply themselves to some art or call that might be serviceable to they upon occasion , he ask I if I have learn anything whereby I might get a livelihood , and not be burdensome to any one ? I tell he that I understand the law , both divine and human ; that I be a grammarian and poet ; and , above all , that I understand write perfectly . ` by all this , ' say he , ` you will not be able , in this country , to purchase yourself one morsel of bread ; nothing be of less use here than those science : but if you will be advise by I , ' say he , ` dress yourself in a labourer 's frock ; and since you appear to be strong and of a good constitution , you shall go into the next forest and cut fire-wood , which you may bring to the market to be sell ; and I can assure you it will turn to such good account that you may live by it , without dependence upon any man : and by this mean you will be in a condition to wait for the favourable moment when Heaven shall think fit to dispel those cloud of misfortune that thwart you happiness , and oblige you to conceal you birth . I will take care to supply you with a rope and a hatchet . ' the fear of be know , and the necessity I be under of get a livelihood , make I agree to this proposal , notwithstanding all the hardship that attend it . the day follow the tailor buy I a rope , a hatchet , and a short coat , and recommend I to some poor people who gain they bread after the same manner , that they might take I into they company . they conduct I to the wood , and the first day I bring in as much upon my head as earn I half a piece of gold , which be the money of that country ; for though the wood be not far distant from the town , yet it be very scarce there , for few or none would be at the trouble to go and cut it . I gain a good sum of money in a short time , and repay my tailor what he have advance for I . I continue this way of live for a whole year ; and one day , when by chance I have go farther into the wood than usual , I happen to light on a very pleasant place , where I begin to cut down wood ; and in pull up the root of a tree , I espy a iron ring , fasten to a trap-door of the same metal . I take away the earth that cover it , and have lift it up , see stair , down which I go , with my axe in my hand . when I come to the bottom of the stair , I find myself in a large palace , which put I into great consternation , because of a great light which appear as clear in it as if it have be above ground in the open air . I go forward along a gallery support by pillar of jasper , the base and capital of massy gold ; but see a lady of a noble and free air and extremely beautiful come towards I , my eye be take off from behold any other object but she alone . be desirous to spare the lady the trouble of come to I , I make haste to meet she ; and as I be salute she with a low bow , she ask I , ` what be you , a man or a genie ? ' ` a man , madam , ' say I : ` I have no correspondence with genie . ' ` by what adventure , ' say she , fetch a deep sigh , ` be you come hither ? I have live here these twenty-five year , and never see any man but yourself during that time . ' she great beauty , and the sweetness and civility wherewith she receive I , embolden I to say to she , ` Madam , before I have the honor to satisfy you curiosity , give I leave to tell you that I be infinitely please with this unexpected meeting , which offer I a occasion of consolation in the midst of my affliction ; and perhaps it may give I a opportunity to make you also more happy than you be . ' I give she a true account by what strange accident she see I , the son of a king , in such a condition as I then present to she eye ; and how fortune direct that I should discover the entrance into that magnificent prison where I have find she accord to appearance in a unpleasant situation . ` AlasS ! prince , ' say she , sigh once more , ` you have just cause to believe this rich and pompous prison can not be otherwise than a most wearisome abode ; the most charming place in the world be no way delightful when we be detain there contrary to we will . you have hear of the great Epitimarus , King of the Isle of Ebony , so call from that precious wood , which it produce in abundance : I be the princess he daughter . ` the king , my father , have choose for I a husband , a prince that be my cousin ; but in the midst of the rejoicing at the court , before I be give to my husband , a genie take I away . I faint at the same moment , and lose my sens ; and when I come to myself again , I find myself in this place . I be for a long time inconsolable , but time and necessity have accustom I to the genie . twenty-five year , as I tell you before , I have continue in this place ; where , I must confess , I have everything that I can wish for necessary to life , and also everything that can satisfy a princess fond of dress and fashion . ` every ten day , ' continue the princess , ` the genie come hither to see I . meanwhile , if I have occasion for he by day or night , as soon as I touch a talisman which be at the entrance into my chamber , the genie appear . it be now the fourth day since he be here , and I do not expect he before the end of six more ; so , if you please , you may stay five day and keep I company , and I will endeavor to entertain you accord to you rank and merit . ' I think myself too fortunate in have obtain so great a favor without ask it to refuse so oblige a offer . the princess make I go into a bath , which be the most sumptuous that could be imagine ; and when I come forth , instead of my own clothes , I find another very costly suit , which I do not esteem so much for its richness as because it make I look worthy to be in she company . we sit down on a sofa cover with rich tapestry , with cushion to lean upon of the rarest indian brocade ; and soon after she cover a table with several dish of delicate meat . we eat together , and pass the remain part of the day with much satisfaction . the next day , as she contrived every mean to please I , she bring in , at dinner , a bottle of old wine , the most excellent that ever be taste ; and out of complaisance she drink some part of it with I . when my head grow hot with the agreeable liquor , ` fair princess , ' say I , ` you have be too long thus bury alive : follow I , and enjoy the real day , from which you have be deprive so many year , and abandon this false light that you have here . ' ` Prince , ' reply she , with a smile , ` stop this discourse ; if out of ten day you will grant I nine , and resign the last to the genie , the fairest day that ever be would be nothing in my esteem . ' ` Princess , ' say I , ` it be the fear of the genie that make you speak thus ; for my part , I value he so little that I will break he talisman in piece . let he come , I will expect he ; and how brave or redoubtable soever he be , I will make he feel the weight of my arm : I swear , solemnly that I will extirpate all the genie in the world , and he first . ' the princess , who know the consequence , conjure I not to touch the talisman ; ` for that would be a means , ' say she , ` to ruin both you and I : I know what belong to geny better than you . ' the fume of the wine do not suffer I to hearken to she reason ; but I give the talisman a kick with my foot , and break it in several piece . the talisman be no sooner broken , than the palace begin to shake , and be ready to fall with a hideous noise like thunder , accompany with flash of lightning and a great darkness . this terrible noise in a moment dispel the fume of my wine , and make I sensible , but too late , of the folly I have commit . ` Princess , ' cry I , ` what mean all this ? ' she answer in a fright , and without any concern for she own misfortune , ` AlasS ! you be undo , if you do not escape immediately . ' I follow she advice , and my fear be so great that I forget my hatchet and cord . I have scarcely get to the stair by which I come down , when the enchanted palace open , and make a passage for the genie : he ask the princess , in great anger , ` what have happen to you , and why do you call I ? ' ` a qualm , ' say the princess , ` make I fetch this bottle which you see here , out of which I drink twice or thrice , and by mischance make a false step , and fall upon the talisman , which be break , and that be all . ' at this answer the furious genie tell she , ` you be a false woman , and a liar : how come that axe and those cord there ? ' ` I never see they till this moment , ' say the princess . ` you come in such a impetuous manner have , it may be , force they up in some place as you come along , and so bring they hither without you know it . ' the genie make no other answer but reproach and blow of which I hear the noise . I could not endure to hear the pitiful cry and shout of the princess , so cruelly abused ; I have already lay off the suit she make I put on , and take my own , which I have lay on the stair the day before , when I come out of the bath ; I make haste upstairs , distract with sorrow and compassion , as I have be the cause of so great a misfortune . for by sacrifice the fairest princess on earth to the barbarity of a merciless genie , I be become the most criminal and ungrateful of mankind . ` it be true , ' say I , ` she have be a prisoner these twenty-five year ; but , liberty except , she want nothing that could make she happy . my folly have put a end to she happiness , and bring upon she the cruelty of a unmerciful monster . ' I let down the trap - door , cover it again with earth , and return to the city with a burden of wood , which I bind up without know what I do , so great be my trouble and sorrow . my landlord , the tailor , be very much rejoice to see I . ` you absence , ' say he , ` have disquiet I very much , because you have entrust I with the secret of you birth , and I know not what to think ; I be afraid somebody have discover you : God be thank for you return . ' I thank he for he zeal and affection , but not a word durst I say of what have pass , nor the reason why I come back without my hatchet and cord . I retire to my chamber , where I reproach myself a thousand time for my excessive imprudence . ` nothing , ' say I , ` could have parallel the princess 's good fortune and mine have I forbear to break the talisman . ' while I be thus give myself over to melancholy thought , the tailor come in . ` a old man , ' say he , ` whom I do not know , bring I here you hatchet and cord , which he find in he way , as he tell I , and understand from you comrade that you lodge here ; come out and speak to he , for he will deliver they to none but yourself . ' at this discourse I change color , and begin to tremble . while the tailor be ask I the reason , my chamber door open , and the old man appear to we with my hatchet and cord . this be the genie , the ravisher of the fair princess of the Isle of Ebony , who have thus disguise himself , after he have treat she with the utmost barbarity . ` I be a genie , ' say he , ` son of the daughter of Eblis , prince of genie . be not this you hatchet , and be not these you cord ? ' after the genie have put the question to I , he give I no time to answer , nor be it in my power , so much have he terrible aspect disorder I . he grasp I by the middle , drag I out of the chamber , and mount into the air , carry I up to the sky with such swiftness that I be unable to take notice of the way he carry I . he descend again in like manner to the earth , which on a sudden he cause to open with a stroke of he foot , and so sink down at once , where I find myself in the enchant palace , before the fair princess of the Isle of Ebony . but alas , what a spectacle be there ! I see what pierce I to the heart ; this poor princess be welter in she blood upon the ground , more dead than alive , with she cheek bath in tear . ` perfidious wretch , ' say the genie to she ; point at I , ` who be this ? ' she cast she languish eye upon I , and answer mournfully , ' I do not know he ; I never see he till this moment . ' ` what ! ' say the genie , ` he be the cause of thy be in the condition thou art justly in , and yet darest thou say thou dost not know he ? ' ` if I do not know he , ' say the princess , ` would you have I tell a lie on purpose to ruin he ? ' ` oh then , ' continue the genie , pull out a scimitar , and present it to the princess , ` if you never see he before , take the scimitar and cut off he head . ' ` alas ! ' reply the princess , ` my strength be so far spend that I can not lift up my arm , and if I could , how should I have the heart to take away the life of a innocent man ? ' ` this refusal , ' say the genie to the princess , ` sufficiently inform I of you crime . ' upon which , turn to I , ` and thou , ' say he , ` dost thou not know she ? ' I should have be the most ungrateful wretch , and the most perfidious of all mankind , if I have not show myself as faithful to the princess as she be to I who have be the cause of she misfortune ; therefore I answer the genie , ` how should I know she ? ' ` if it be so , ' say he , ` take the scimitar and cut off she head : on this condition I will set thee at liberty , for then I shall be convince that thou didst never see she till this very moment , as thou sayest . ' ` with all my heart , ' reply I , and take the scimitar in my hand . but I do it only to demonstrate by my behavior , as much as possible , that as she have show she resolution to sacrifice she life for my sake , I would not refuse to sacrifice mine for hers . the princess , notwithstanding she pain and suffering , understand my meaning , which she signify by a obliging look . upon this I step back , and throw the scimitar on the ground . ` I should for ever , ' say I to the genie , ` be hateful to all mankind be I to be so base as to murder a lady like this , who be ready to give up the ghost : do with I what you please , since I be in you power ; I can not obey you barbarous command . ' ` I see , ' say the genie , ` that you both outbrave I , but both of you shall know , by the treatment I give you , what I be capable of do . ' at these word the monster take up the scimitar and cut off one of she hand , which leave she only so much life as to give I a token with the other that she bid I adieu for ever , the sight of which throw I into a fit . when I be come to myself again , I expostulate with the genie as to why he make I languish in expectation of death . ` strike , ' cry I , ` for I be ready to receive the mortal blow , and expect it as the greatest favor you can show I . ' but instead of agree to that , ` look you , ' say he , ` how genie treat they wife whom they suspect : she have receive you here , and be I certain that she have put any further affront upon I , I would put you to death this minute : but I will be content to transform you into a dog , ape , lion , or bird . take you choice of any of these ; I will leave it to yourself . ' these word give I some hope to mollify he . ` oh genie , ' say I , ` moderate you passion , and since you will not take away my life , give it I generously ; I shall always remember you , if you pardon I , as one of the best man in the world . ' ` all that I can do for you , ' say he , ` be , not to take you life : do not flatter yourself that I will send you back safe and sound ; I must let you feel what I be able to do by my enchantment . ' so say , he lay violent hand on I , and carry I across the vault of the subterranean palace , which open to give he passage . then he fly up with I so high that the earth seem to be only a little white cloud ; from thence he come down like lightning , and alight upon the ridge of a mountain . there he take up a handful of earth , and pronounced , or rather mutter , some word which I do not understand , and throw it upon I . ` quit the shape of a man , ' say he to I , ` and take on you that of a ape . ' he vanish immediately , and leave I alone , transform into a ape , overwhelm with sorrow in a strange country , and not know whether I be near or far from my father 's dominion . I go down from the top of the mountain and come into a plain , which take I a month 's time to travel through , and then I come to the seaside . it happen to be then a great calm , and I espy a vessel about half a league from the shore . unwilling to lose this good opportunity , I break off a large branch from a tree , which I carry with I to the seaside , and set myself astride upon it , with a stick in each hand to serve I for oar . I launch out in this posture , and advance near the ship . when I be near enough to be know , the seaman and passenger that be upon the deck think it a extraordinary sight , and all of they look upon I with great astonishment . in the meantime I get aboard , and lay hold of a rope , I jump upon the deck , but have lose my speech , I find myself in great perplexity ; and indeed the risk I run then be nothing less than when I be at the mercy of the genie . the merchant , be both superstitious and scrupulous , believe I should occasion some mischief to they voyage if they receive I ; ` therefore , ' say one , ` I will knock he down with a handspike ' ; say another , ` I will shoot a arrow through he ' ; say a third , ` let we throw he into the sea . ' some of they would not have fail to do so , if I have not get to that side where the captain be . I throw myself at he foot , and take he by the coat in a beg posture . this action , together with the tear which he see gush from my eye , move he compassion ; so that he take I under he protection , threaten to be revenge on he that would do I the least hurt ; and he himself make very much of I , while I on my part , though I have no power to speak , show all possible sign of gratitude by my gesture . the wind that succeed the calm be gentle and favourable , and do not change for fifty day , but bring we safe to the port of a fine city , well people , and of great trade , the capital of a powerful state , where we come to anchor . we vessel be speedily surround with a infinite number of boat full of people , who come to congratulate they friend upon they safe arrival , or to inquire for those they have leave behind they in the country from whence they come , or out of curiosity to see a ship that come from a far country . amongst the rest , some officer come on board , desire to speak with the merchant in the name of the sultan . the merchant appear , one of the officer tell they , ` the sultan , we master , hath command we to acquaint you that he be glad of you safe arrival , and pray you to take the trouble , every one of you , to write some line upon this roll of paper . you must know that we have a prime vizier who , besides have a great capacity to manage affair , understand write to the highest perfection . this minister be lately dead , at which the sultan be very much trouble ; and since he can never behold he writing without admiration , he have make a solemn vow not to give the place to any man but to he who can write as well as he do . many people have present they writings , but , so far , nobody in all this empire have be judge worthy to supply the vizier 's place . ' those merchant that believe they could write well enough to aspire to this high dignity write one after another what they think fit . after they have do , I advance , and take the roll out of the gentleman 's hand ; but all the people , especially the merchant , cry out , ` he will tear it , or throw it into the sea , ' till they see how properly I hold the roll , and make a sign that I would write in my turn ; then they be of another opinion , and they fear turn into admiration . however , since they have never see a ape that could write , nor could be persuade that I be more ingenious than other ape , they try to snatch the roll out of my hand ; but the captain take my part once more . ` let he alone , ' say he ; ` suffer he to write . if he only scribble the paper , I promise you that I will punish he on the spot . if , on the contrary , he write well , as I hope he will , because I never see a ape so clever and ingenious and so quick of apprehension , I do declare that I will own he as my son ; I have one that have not half the wit that he have . ' perceive that nobody oppose my design , I take the pen and write six sort of hand use among the ArabiansS , and each specimen contain a extemporary verse or poem in praise of the sultan . my writing do not only excel that of the merchant , but , I venture to say , they have not before see any such fair writing in that country . when I have do , the officer take the roll , and carry it to the sultan . the sultan take little notice of any of the other writings , but he carefully consider mine , which be so much to he like that he say to the officer , ` take the finest horse in my stable , with the richest harness , and a robe of the most sumptuous brocade to put upon that person who write the six hand , and bring he hither to I . ' at this command the officer could not forbear laughing . the sultan grow angry at they boldness , and be ready to punish they , till they tell he , ` Sir , we humbly beg you majesty 's pardon ; these hand be not write by a man , but by a ape . ' ` what do you say ? ' say the sultan . ` those admirable character , be they not write by the hand of a man ? ' ` no , sir , ' reply the officer ; ` we do assure you majesty that it be a ape , who write they in we presence . ' the sultan be too much surprise at this not to desire a sight of I , and therefore say , ` bring I speedily that wonderful ape . ' the officer return to the vessel and show the captain they order , who answer that the sultan 's command must be obey . Whereupon they clothe I with that rich brocade robe and carry I ashore , where they set I on horseback , whilst the sultan wait for I at he palace with a great number of courtier , whom he gather together to do I the more honor . the cavalcade have begin , the harbor , the street , the public place , window , terrace , palace , and house be fill with a infinite number of people of all sort , who flock from all part of the city to see I ; for the rumor be spread in a moment that the sultan have choose a ape to be he grand vizier ; and after have serve for a spectacle to the people , who could not forbear to express they surprise by redouble they shout and cry , I arrive at the palace of the sultan . I find the prince on he throne in the midst of the grandee ; I make my bow three time very low , and at last kneel and kiss the ground before he , and afterwards sit down in the posture of a ape . the whole assembly admire I , and could not comprehend how it be possible that a ape should understand so well how to pay the sultan he due respect ; and he himself be more astonished than any one . in short , the usual ceremony of the audience would have be complete could I have add speech to my behavior : but ape never speak , and the advantage I have of have be a man do not allow I that privilege . the sultan dismiss he courtier , and none remain by he but the chief of the chamberlain , a young slave , and myself . he go from he chamber of audience into he own apartment , where he order dinner to be bring . as he sit at table he give I a sign to come near and eat with they : to show my obedience I kiss the ground , stand up , sit down at table , and eat with discretion and moderation . before the table be uncover , I espy a writing-desk , which I make a sign should be bring I : have get it , I write upon a large peach some verse after my way , which testify my acknowledgment to the sultan , which increase he astonishment . when the table be uncover , they bring he a particular liquor , of which he cause they to give I a glass . I drink , and write upon it some new verse , which explain the state I be reduce to after many suffering . the sultan read they likewise , and say , ' a man that be capable of do so much would be above the greatest of man . ' the sultan cause they to bring in a chess-board , and ask I , by a sign , if I understand the game , and would play with he . I kiss the ground , and lay my hand upon my head , signify that I be ready to receive that honor . he win the first game , but I win the second and third ; and perceive he be somewhat displeased at it , I make a poem to pacify he ; in which I tell he that two potent army have be fight furiously all day , but that they make up a peace towards the evening , and pass the remain part of the night very peaceably together upon the field of battle . so many circumstance appear to the sultan far beyond whatever any one have either see or know of the cleverness or sense of ape , he determine not to be the only witness of those prodigy himself ; but have a daughter , call the Lady of beauty , on whom the chief of the chamberlain , then present , wait , ` go , ' say the sultan to he , ` and bid you lady come hither : I be desirous she should share my pleasure . ' the chamberlain go , and immediately bring the princess , who have she face uncover ; but she have no sooner come into the room than she put on she veil , and say to the sultan , ` Sir , you majesty must need have forget yourself : I be very much surprise that you majesty have send for I to appear among man . ' ` Nay , daughter , ' say the sultan , ` you do not know what you say : here be nobody but the little slave , the chamberlain you attendant and myself , who have the liberty to see you face ; and yet you lower you veil , and blame I for have send for you hither . ' ` Sir , ' say the princess , ` you majesty shall soon understand that I be not in the wrong . that ape you see before you , though he have the shape of a ape , be a young prince , son of a great king ; he have be metamorphose into a ape by enchantment . a genie , the son of the daughter of Eblis , have maliciously do he this wrong , after have cruelly take away the life of the Princess of the Isle of Ebony , daughter to the King Epitimarus . ' the sultan , astonish at this discourse , turn towards I and ask no more by sign , but in plain word if it be true what he daughter say ? see I could not speak , I put my hand to my head to signify that what the princess speak be true . upon this the sultan say again to he daughter , ` how do you know that this prince have be transform by enchantment into a ape ? ' ` Sir , ' reply the Lady of beauty , ` you majesty may remember that when I be past my infancy , I have a old lady to wait upon I ; she be a most expert magician , and teach I seventy rule of magic , by virtue of which I can transport you capital city into the midst of the sea in the twinkling of a eye , or beyond Mount Caucasus . by this science I know all enchant person at first sight . I know who they be , and by whom they have be enchant . therefore do not be surprise if I should forthwith relieve this prince , in spite of the enchantment , from that which hinder he from appear in you sight what he naturally be . ' ` daughter , ' say the sultan , ` I do not believe you to have understand so much . ' ` Sir , ' reply the princess , ` these thing be curious and worth know , but I think I ought not to boast of they . ' ` since it be so , ' say the sultan , ` you can dispel the prince 's enchantment . ' ` yes , sir , ' say the princess , ` I can restore he to he first shape again . ' ` do it then , ' say the sultan ; ` you can not do I a greater pleasure , for I will have he to be my vizier , and he shall marry you . ' ` Sir , ' say the princess , ` I be ready to obey you in all that you may be please to command I . ' the princess , the Lady of beauty , go into she apartment , from whence she bring in a knife , which have some Hebrew word engraven on the blade ; she make the sultan , the master of the chamberlain , the little slave , and myself , go down into a private court of the palace , and there leave we under a gallery that go round it . she place herself in the middle of the court , where she make a great circle , and within it she write several word in Arabic character , some of they ancient , and other of those which they call the character of Cleopatra . when she have finish and prepare the circle as she think fit , she place herself in the center of it , where she begin spell , and repeat verse out of the Koran . the air grow insensibly dark , as if it have be night and the whole world about to be dissolve ; we find ourselves strike with a panic , and this fear increase the more when we see the genie , the son of the daughter of Eblis , appear on a sudden in the shape of a lion of a frightful size . as soon as the princess perceive this monster , ` you dog , ' say she , ` instead of creep before I , dare you present yourself in this shape , think to frighten I ? ' ` and thou , ' reply the lion , ` art thou not afraid to break the treaty which be solemnly make and confirm between we by oath , not to wrong or to do one another any hurt ? ' ` oh ! thou cursed creature ! ' reply the princess , ` I can justly reproach thee with do so . ' the lion answer fiercely , ` Thou shalt quickly have thy reward for the trouble thou hast give I to return . ' with that he open he terrible throat , and run at she to devour she , but she , be on she guard , leap backward , get time to pull out one of she hair and , by pronounce three or four word , change it into a sharp sword , wherewith she cut the lion through the middle in two piece . the two part of the lion vanish , and the head only be leave , which change itself into a large scorpion . immediately the princess turn herself into a serpent , and fight the scorpion , who find himself worst , take the shape of a eagle , and fly away ; but the serpent at the same time take also the shape of a eagle that be black and much stronger , and pursue he , so that we lose sight of they both . some time after they have disappear , the ground open before we , and out of it come forth a cat , black and white , with she hair standing upright , and mew in a frightful manner ; a black wolf follow she close , and give she no time to rest . the cat , be thus hard beset , change herself into a worm , and be nigh to a pomegranate that have accidentally fall from a tree that grow on the side of a canal which be deep but not broad , the worm pierce the pomegranate in a instant , and hide itself . the pomegranate swell immediately , and become as big as a gourd , which , mount up to the roof of the gallery , roll there for some space backwards and forwards , fall down again into the court , and break into several piece . the wolf , which have in the meanwhile transform itself into a cock , fall to pick up the seed of the pomegranate one after another , but find no more , he come towards we with he wing spread , make a great noise , as if he would ask we whether there be any more seed . there be one lie on the brink of the canal , which the cock perceive as he go back , and run speedily thither , but just as he be go to pick it up , the seed roll into the river , and turn into a little fish . the cock jump into the river and be turn into a pike that pursue the small fish ; they continue both under water for over two hour , and we know not what have become of they . all of a sudden we hear terrible cry , which make we tremble , and a little while after we see the genie and princess all in flame . they throw flash of fire out of they mouth at each other , till they come to close quarter ; then the two fire increase , with a thick burning smoke , which mount so high that we have reason to fear it would set the palace on fire . but we very soon have a more urgent reason for fear , for the genie , have get loose from the princess , come to the gallery where we stand , and blow flame of fire upon we . we should all have perish if the princess , run to we assistance , have not by she cry force he to retire , and defend himself against she ; yet , notwithstanding all she exertion , she could not hinder the sultan 's beard from be burnt , and he face spoil , nor the chief of the chamberlain from be stifle and burn on the spot . the sultan and I expect nothing but death , when we hear a cry of ` Victory , victory ! ' and on a sudden the princess appear in she natural shape , but the genie be reduce to a heap of ash . the princess come near to we that she might not lose time , call for a cupful of water , which the young slave , who have receive no damage , bring she . she take it , and after pronounce some word over it , throw it upon I , say , ` if thou art become a ape by enchantment , change thy shape , and take that of a man , which thou hadst before . ' these word be hardly utter when I become a man as I be before . I be prepare to give thanks to the princess , but she prevent I by address herself to she father , thus : ` Sir , I have gain the victory over the genie , as you majesty may see ; but it be a victory that cost I dear . I have but a few minute to live , and you will not have the satisfaction of make the match you intend ; the fire have pierce I during the terrible combat , and I find it be consuming I by degree . this would not have happen have I perceive the last of the pomegranate seed , and swallow it as I do the other , when I be change into a cock ; the genie have flee thither as to he last entrenchment , and upon that the success of the combat depend , without danger to I . this slip oblige I to have recourse to fire , and to fight with those mighty arm as I do between heaven and earth , in you presence ; for , in spite of all he redoubtable art and experience , I make the genie know that I understand more than he . I have conquer and reduce he to ash , but I can not escape death , which be approach . ' the sultan suffer the princess , the Lady or beauty , to go on with the recital of she combat , and when she have do he speak to she in a tone that sufficiently testify he grief : ` my daughter , ' say he , ` you see in what condition you father be ; alas ! I wonder that I be yet alive ! ' he could speak no more , for he tear , sigh and sob make he speechless ; he daughter and I weep with he . in the meantime , while we be vie with each other in grief the princess cry , ` I burn ! I burn ! ' she find that the fire which consume she have at last seize upon she whole body , which make she still cry ` I burn , ' until death have make a end of she intolerable pain . the effect of that fire be so extraordinary that in a few moment she be wholly reduce to ash , like the genie . how grieved I be at so dismal a spectacle ! I have rather all my life have continue a ape or a dog than to have see my benefactress thus miserably perish . the sultan , be afflict beyond all that can be imagine , cry out piteously , and beat himself on he head , until be quite overcome with grief , he faint away , which make I fear for he life . in the meantime the officer come run at the sultan 's cry , and with very much ado bring he to himself again . there be no need for he and I to give they a long narrative of this adventure , in order to convince they of they great loss . the two heap of ash , into which the princess and the genie have be reduce , be sufficient demonstration . the sultan be hardly able to stand , but have to be support till he could get to he apartment . when the news of the tragical event have spread through the palace and the city , all the people bewail the misfortune of the princess , the Lady of beauty , and be much affect by the sultan 's affliction . every one be in deep mourn for seven day , and many ceremony be perform . the ash of the genie be throw into the air , but those of the princess be gather into a precious urn to be keep , and the urn be set in a stately tomb which be build for that purpose on the same place where the ash have lain . the grief which the sultan feel for the loss of he daughter throw he into a fit of illness , which confine he to he chamber for a whole month . he have not fully recover strength when he send for I : ` Prince , ' say he , ` hearken to the order that I now give you ; it will cost you you life if you do not put they into execution . ' I assure he of exact obedience , upon which he go on thus : ' I have constantly live in perfect felicity , and be never cross by any accident : but by you arrival all the happiness I possess be vanish ; my daughter be dead , she attendant be no more , and it be through a miracle that I be yet alive . you be the cause of all those misfortune , for which it be impossible that I should be comfort ; therefore depart from hence in peace , without farther delay , for I myself must perish if you stay any longer : I be persuade that you presence bring mischief along , with it . this be all I have to say to you . Depart , and beware of ever appear again in my dominion ; no consideration whatsoever shall hinder I from make you repent of it . ' I be go to speak , but he stop my mouth with word full of anger ; and so I be oblige to leave he palace , reject , banish , a outcast from the world , and not know what would become of I . and so I become a hermit .