191 the Sea-Hare BrothersS Grimm there be once upon a time a princess , who , high under the battlements in she castle , have a apartment with twelve window , which look out in every possible direction , and when she climb up to it and look around she , she could inspect she whole kingdom . when she look out of the first , she sight be more keen than that of any other human being ; from the second she could see still better , from the third more distinctly still , and so it go on , until the twelfth , from which she see everything above the earth and under the earth , and nothing at all could be keep secret from she . moreover , as she be haughty , and would be subject to no one , but wish to keep the dominion for herself alone , she cause it to be proclaim that no one should ever be she husband who could not conceal himself from she so effectually , that it should be quite impossible for she to find he . he who try this , however , and be discover by she , be to have he head strike off , and stick on a post . ninety-seven post with the head of dead man be already stand before the castle , and no one have come forward for a long time . the princess be delighted , and think to herself , `` now I shall be free as long as I live . '' then three brother appear before she , and announce to she that they be desirous of try they luck . the eldest believe he would be quite safe if he creep into a lime-pit , but she see he from the first window , make he come out , and have he head cut off . the second creep into the cellar of the palace , but she perceive he also from the first window , and he fate be seal . he head be place on the nine and ninetieth post . then the youngest come to she and entreat she to give he a day for consideration , and also to be so gracious as to overlook it if she should happen to discover he twice , but if he fail the third time , he would look on he life as over . as he be so handsome , and beg so earnestly , she say , `` yes , I will grant thee that , but thou wilt not succeed . '' next day he meditate for a long time how he should hide himself , but all in vain . then he seize he gun and go out hunting . he see a raven , take a good aim at he , and be just go to fire , when the bird cry , `` do not shoot ; I will make it worth thy while not . '' he put he gun down , go on , and come to a lake where he surprise a large fish which have come up from the depths below to the surface of the water . when he have aim at it , the fish cry , `` do not shoot , and I will make it worth thy while . '' he allow it to dive down again , go onward , and meet a fox which be lame . he fire and miss it , and the fox cry , `` you have much better come here and draw the thorn out of my foot for I . '' he do this ; but then he want to kill the fox and skin it , the fox say , `` Stop , and I will make it worth thy while . '' the youth let he go , and then as it be evening , return home . next day he be to hide himself ; but howsoever much he puzzle he brain over it , he do not know where . he go into the forest to the raven and say , `` I let thee live on , so now tell I where I be to hide myself , so that the King 's daughter shall not see I . '' the raven hang he head and think it over for a longtime . at length he croak , `` I have it . '' he fetch a egg out of he nest , cut it into two part , and shut the youth inside it ; then make it whole again , and seat himself on it . when the King 's daughter go to the first window she could not discover he , nor could she from the other , and she begin to be uneasy , but from the eleventh she see he . she order the raven to be shoot , and the egg to be bring and break , and the youth be force to come out . she say , `` for once thou art excuse , but if thou dost not do better than this , thou art lose ! '' next day he go to the lake , call the fish to he and say , `` I suffer thee to live , now tell I where to hide myself so that the King 's daughter may not see I . '' the fish think for a while , and at last cried , `` I have it ! I will shut thee up in my stomach . '' he swallow he , and go down to the bottom of the lake . the King 's daughter look through she window , and even from the eleventh do not see he , and be alarm ; but at length from the twelfth she see he . she order the fish to be catch and kill , and then the youth appear . every one can imagine what a state of mind he be in . she say , `` twice thou art forgive , but be sure that thy head will be set on the hundredth post . '' on the last day , he go with a heavy heart into the country , and meet the fox . `` Thou knowest how to find all kind of hiding-places , '' say he ; `` I let thee live , now advise I where I shall hide myself so that the King 's daughter shall not discover I . '' `` that be a hard task , '' answer the fox , look very thoughtful . at length he cry , `` I have it ! '' and go with he to a spring , dip himself in it , and come out as a stall-keeper in the market , and dealer in animal . the youth have to dip himself in the water also , and be change into a small sea-hare . the merchant go into the town , and show the pretty little animal , and many person gather together to see it . at length the King 's daughter come likewise , and as she like it very much , she buy it , and give the merchant a good deal of money for it . before he give it over to she , he say to it , `` when the King 's daughter go to the window , creep quickly under the braid of he hair . '' and now the time arrive when she be to search for he . she go to one window after another in turn , from the first to the eleventh , and do not see he . when she do not see he from the twelfth either , she be full of anxiety and anger , and shut it down with such violence that the glass in every window shiver into a thousand piece , and the whole castle shake . she go back and feel the sea-hare beneath the braid of she hair . then she seize it , and throw it on the ground exclaiming , `` away with thee , get out of my sight ! '' it run to the merchant , and both of they hurry to the spring , wherein they plunge , and receive back they true form . the youth thank the fox , and say , `` the raven and the fish be idiot compare with thee ; thou knowest the right tune to play , there be no deny that ! '' the youth go straight to the palace . the princess be already expect he , and accommodate herself to she destiny . the wedding be solemnize , and now he be king , and lord of all the kingdom . he never tell she where he have conceal himself for the third time , and who have help he , so she believe that he have do everything by he own skill , and she have a great respect for he , for she think to herself , `` he be able to do more than i. ''