118 the three Army-Surgeons BrothersS Grimm Three army-surgeons who think they know they art perfectly , be travel about the world , and they come to a inn where they want to pass the night . the host ask whence they come , and whither they be go ? `` we be roam about the world and practise we art . '' `` just show I for once in a way what you can do , '' say the host . then the first say he would cut off he hand , and put it on again early next morning ; the second say he would tear out he heart , and replace it next morning ; the third say he would cut out he eye and heal they again next morning . `` if you can do that , '' say the innkeeper , `` you have learn everything . '' they , however , have a salve , with which they rub themselves , which join part together , and they carry the little bottle in which it be , constantly with they . then they cut the hand , heart and eye from they body as they have say they would , and lay they all together on a plate , and give it to the innkeeper . the innkeeper give it to a servant who be to set it in the cupboard , and take good care of it . the girl , however , have a lover in secret , who be a soldier . when therefore the innkeeper , the three army-surgeons , and everyone else in the house be asleep , the soldier come and want something to eat . the girl open the cupboard and bring he some food , and in she love forget to shut the cupboard-door again ; she seat herself at the table by she lover , and they chatter away together . while she sit so contentedly there , thinking of no ill luck , the cat come creep in , find the cupboard open , take the hand and heart and eye of the three army-surgeons , and run off with they . when the soldier have do eating , and the girl be take away the thing and go to shut the cupboard she see that the plate which the innkeeper have give she to take care of , be empty . then she say in a fright to she lover , `` ah , miserable girl , what shall I do ? the hand be go , the heart and the eye be go too , what will become of I in the morning ? '' `` be easy , '' say he , `` I will help thee out of thy trouble there be a thief hang outside on the gallows , I will cut off he hand . which hand be it ? '' `` the right one . '' then the girl give he a sharp knife , and he go and cut the poor sinner 's right hand off , and bring it to she . after this he catch the cat and cut its eye out , and now nothing but the heart be want . `` have you not be kill , and be not the dead pig in the cellar ? '' say he . `` yes , '' say the girl . `` that be well , '' say the soldier , and he go down and fetch a pig 's heart . the girl place all together on the plate , and put it in the cupboard , and when after this she lover take leave of she , she go quietly to bed . in the morning when the three army-surgeons get up , they tell the girl she be to bring they the plate on which the hand , heart , and eye be lie . then she bring it out of the cupboard , and the first fix the thief 's hand on and smear it with he salve , and it grow to he arm directly . the second take the cat 's eye and put they in he own head . the third fix the pig 's heart firm in the place where he own have be , and the innkeeper stand by , admire they skill , and say he have never yet see such a thing as that do , and would sing they praise and recommend they to everyone . then they pay they bill , and travel farther . as they be on they way , the one with the pig 's heart do not stay with they at all , but wherever there be a corner he run to it , and root about in it with he nose as pig do . the other want to hold he back by the tail of he coat , but that do no good ; he tear himself loose , and run wherever the dirt be thickest . the second also behave very strangely ; he rub he eye , and say to the other , `` comrade , what be the matter ? I do not see at all . Will one of you lead I , so that I do not fall . '' then with difficulty they travel on till evening , when they reach another inn . they go into the bar together , and there at a table in the corner sit a rich man count money . the one with the thief 's hand walk round about he , make a sudden movement twice with he arm , and at last when the stranger turn away , he snatch at the pile of money , and take a handful from it . one of they see this , and say , `` Comrade , what art thou about ? Thou must not steal shame on thee ! '' `` Eh , '' say he , `` but how can I stop myself ? my hand twitch , and I be force to snatch thing whether I will or not . '' after this , they lay down to sleep , and while they be lie there it be so dark that no one could see he own hand . all at once the one with the cat 's eye awake , arouse the other , and say . `` Brothers , just look up , do you see the white mouse run about there ? '' the two sit up , but could see nothing . then say he , `` thing be not right with we , we have not get back again what be ours . we must return to the innkeeper , he have deceive we . '' they go back therefore , the next morning , and tell the host they have not get what be they own again ; that the first have a thief 's hand , the second cat 's eye , and the third a pig 's heart . the innkeeper say that the girl must be to blame for that , and be go to call she , but when she have see the three come , she have run out by the backdoor , and not come back . then the three say he must give they a great deal of money , or they would set he house on fire . he give they what he have , and whatever he could get together , and the three go away with it . it be enough for the rest of they life , but they would rather have have they own proper organ .