76 the Pink BrothersS Grimm there be once on a time a Queen to whom God have give no child . every morning she go into the garden and pray to God in heaven to bestow on she a son or a daughter . then a angel from heaven come to she and say , `` be at rest , thou shalt have a son with the power of wish , so that whatsoever in the world he wish for , that shall he have . '' then she go to the King , and tell he the joyful tiding , and when the time be come she give birth to a son , and the King be fill with gladness . every morning she go with the child to the garden where the wild beast be keep , and wash herself there in a clear stream . it happen once when the child be a little older , that it be lie in she arm and she fall asleep . then come the old cook , who know that the child have the power of wish , and steal it away , and he take a hen , and cut it in piece , and drop some of its blood on the Queen 's apron and on she dress . then he carry the child away to a secret place , where a nurse be oblige to suckle it , and he run to the King and accuse the Queen of have allow she child to be take from she by the wild beast . when the King see the blood on she apron , he believe this , fall into such a passion that he order a high tower to be build , in which neither sun nor moon could be see , and have he wife put into it , and wall up . here she be to stay for seven year without meat or drink , and die of hunger . but God send two angel from heaven in the shape of white dove , which fly to she twice a day , and carry she food until the seven year be over . the cook , however , think to himself , `` if the child have the power of wish , and I be here , he might very easily get I into trouble . '' so he leave the palace and go to the boy , who be already big enough to speak , and say to he , `` Wish for a beautiful palace for thyself with a garden , and all else that pertain to it . '' scarcely be the word out of the boy 's mouth , when everything be there that he have wish for . after a while the cook say to he , `` it be not well for thee to be so alone , wish for a pretty girl as a companion . '' then the King 's son wish for one , and she immediately stand before he , and be more beautiful than any painter could have paint she . the two play together , and love each other with all they heart , and the old cook go out hunting like a nobleman . the thought , however , occur to he that the King 's son might some day wish to be with he father , and thus bring he into great peril . so he go out and take the maiden aside , and say , `` to-night when the boy be asleep , go to he bed and plunge this knife into he heart , and bring I he heart and tongue , and if thou dost not do it , thou shalt lose thy life . '' Thereupon he go away , and when he return next day she have not do it , and say , `` why should I shed the blood of a innocent boy who have never harm any one ? '' the cook once more say , `` if thou dost not do it , it shall cost thee thy own life . '' when he have go away , she have a little hind bring to she , and order she to be kill , and take she heart and tongue , and lay they on a plate , and when she see the old man come , she say to the boy , `` lie down in thy bed , and draw the clothes over thee . '' then the wicked wretch come in and say , `` where be the boy 's heart and tongue ? '' the girl reach the plate to he , but the King 's son throw off the quilt , and say , `` Thou old sinner , why didst thou want to kill I ? now will I pronounce thy sentence . Thou shalt become a black poodle and have a gold collar round thy neck , and shalt eat burning coal , till the flame burst forth from thy throat . '' and when he have speak these word , the old man be change into a poodle dog , and have a gold collar round he neck , and the cook be order to bring up some live coal , and these he eat , until the flame break forth from he throat . the King 's son remain there a short while longer , and he think of he mother , and wonder if she be still alive . at length he say to the maiden , `` I will go home to my own country ; if thou wilt go with I , I will provide for thee . '' `` ah , '' she reply , `` the way be so long , and what shall I do in a strange land where I be unknown ? '' as she do not seem quite willing , and as they could not be part from each other , he wish that she might be change into a beautiful pink , and take she with he . then he go away to he own country , and the poodle have to run after he . he go to the tower in which he mother be confine , and as it be so high , he wish for a ladder which would reach up to the very top . then he mount up and look inside , and cry , `` beloved mother , Lady Queen , be you still alive , or be you dead ? '' she answer , `` I have just eat , and be still satisfied , '' for she think the angel be there . Said he , `` I be you dear son , whom the wild beast be say to have tear from you arm ; but I be alive still , and will speedily deliver you . '' then he descend again , and go to he father , and cause himself to be announce as a strange huntsman , and ask if he could give he a place . the King say yes , if he be skilful and could get game for he , he should come to he , but that deer have never take up they quarter in any part of the district or country . then the huntsman promise to procure as much game for he as he could possibly use at the royal table . so he summon all the huntsman together , and bid they go out into the forest with he . and he go with they and make they form a great circle , open at one end where he station himself , and begin to wish . two hundred deer and more come run inside the circle at once , and the huntsman shoot they . then they be all place on sixty country cart , and driven home to the King , and for once he be able to deck he table with game , after have have none at all for year . now the King feel great joy at this , and command that he entire household should eat with he next day , and make a great feast . when they be all assemble together , he say to the huntsman , `` as thou art so clever , thou shalt sit by I . '' he reply , `` Lord King , you majesty must excuse I , I be a poor huntsman . '' but the King insist on it , and say , `` Thou shalt sit by I , '' until he do it . Whilst he be sit there , he think of he dearest mother , and wish that one of the King 's principal servant would begin to speak of she , and would ask how it be fare with the Queen in the tower , and if she be alive still , or have perish . hardly have he form the wish than the marshal begin , and say , `` you majesty , we live joyously here , but how be the Queen living in the tower ? be she still alive , or have she die ? '' but the King reply , `` she let my dear son be tear to piece by wild beast ; I will not have she name . '' then the huntsman arise and say , `` gracious lord father , she be alive still , and I be she son , and I be not carry away by wild beast , but by that wretch the old cook , who tear I from she arm when she be asleep , and sprinkle she apron with the blood of a chicken . '' Thereupon he take the dog with the golden collar , and say , `` that be the wretch ! '' and cause live coal to be bring , and these the dog be compel to devour before the sight of all , until flame burst forth from its throat . on this the huntsman ask the King if he would like to see the dog in he true shape , and wish he back into the form of the cook , in the which he stand immediately , with he white apron , and he knife by he side . when the King see he he fall into a passion , and order he to be cast into the deepest dungeon . then the huntsman speak further and say , `` Father , will you see the maiden who bring I up so tenderly and who be afterwards to murder I , but do not do it , though she own life depend on it ? '' the King reply , `` yes , I would like to see she . '' the son say , `` most gracious father , I will show she to you in the form of a beautiful flower , '' and he thrust he hand into he pocket and bring forth the pink , and place it on the royal table , and it be so beautiful that the King have never see one to equal it . then the son say , `` now will I show she to you in she own form , '' and wish that she might become a maiden , and she stand there look so beautiful that no painter could have make she look more so . and the King send two waiting-maids and two attendant into the tower , to fetch the Queen and bring she to the royal table . but when she be lead in she eat nothing , and say , `` the gracious and merciful God who have support I in the tower , will speedily deliver I . '' she live three day more , and then die happily , and when she be bury , the two white dove which have bring she food to the tower , and be angel of heaven , follow she body and seat themselves on she grave . the age King order the cook to be tear in four piece , but grief consume the King 's own heart , and he soon die . he son marry the beautiful maiden whom he have bring with he as a flower in he pocket , and whether they be still alive or not , be know to God .