the story of URASHIMA TARO , the FISHER LAD . Japanese Writer Long , long ago in the province of Tango there live on the shore of Japan in the little fishing village of mizu-no-ye a young fisherman name Urashima Taro . he father have be a fisherman before he , and he skill have more than doubly descend to he son , for Urashima be the most skillful fisher in all that country side , and could catch more Bonito and Tai in a day than he comrade could in a week . but in the little fishing village , more than for be a clever fisher of the sea be he know for he kind heart . in he whole life he have never hurt anything , either great or small , and when a boy , he companion have always laugh at he , for he would never join with they in tease animal , but always try to keep they from this cruel sport . one soft summer twilight he be go home at the end of a day 's fishing when he come upon a group of child . they be all scream and talk at the top of they voice , and seem to be in a state of great excitement about something , and on he go up to they to see what be the matter he see that they be torment a tortoise . first one boy pull it this way , then another boy pull it that way , while a third child beat it with a stick , and the fourth hammer its shell with a stone . now Urashima feel very sorry for the poor tortoise and make up he mind to rescue it . he speak to the boy : `` look here , boy , you be treat that poor tortoise so badly that it will soon die ! '' the boy , who be all of a age when child seem to delight in be cruel to animal , take no notice of Urashima 's gentle reproof , but go on tease it as before . one of the older boy answer : `` who care whether it live or die ? we do not . here , boy , go on , go on ! '' and they begin to treat the poor tortoise more cruelly than ever . Urashima wait a moment , turn over in he mind what would be the best way to deal with the boy . he would try to persuade they to give the tortoise up to he , so he smile at they and say : `` I be sure you be all good , kind boy ! now will not you give I the tortoise ? I should like to have it so much ! '' `` no , we will not give you the tortoise , '' say one of the boy . `` why should we ? we catch it ourselves . '' `` what you say be true , '' say Urashima , `` but I do not ask you to give it to I for nothing . I will give you some money for it -- in other word , the Ojisan -lrb-B- Uncle -rrb-B- will buy it of you . Wo not that do for you , my boy ? '' he hold up the money to they , string on a piece of string through a hole in the center of each coin . `` look , boy , you can buy anything you like with this money . you can do much more with this money than you can with that poor tortoise . see what good boy you be to listen to I '' the boy be not bad boy at all , they be only mischievous , and as Urashima speak they be win by he kind smile and gentle word and begin `` to be of he spirit , '' as they say in Japan . gradually they all come up to he , the ringleader of the little band hold out the tortoise to he . `` very well , Ojisan , we will give you the tortoise if you will give we the money ! '' and Urashima take the tortoise and give the money to the boy , who , call to each other , scamper away and be soon out of sight . then Urashima stroke the tortoise 's back , say as he do so : `` oh , you poor thing ! Poor thing ! -- there , there ! you be safe now ! they say that a stork life for a thousand year , but the tortoise for ten thousand year . you have the longest life of any creature in this world , and you be in great danger of have that precious life cut short by those cruel boy . luckily I be pass by and save you , and so life be still yours . now I be go to take you back to you home , the sea , at once . do not let yourself be catch again , for there might be no one to save you next time ! '' all the time that the kind fisherman be speak he be walk quickly to the shore and out upon the rock ; then put the tortoise into the water he watch the animal disappear , and turn homeward himself , for he be tire and the sun have set . the next morning Urashima go out as usual in he boat . the weather be fine and the sea and sky be both blue and soft in the tender haze of the summer morning . Urashima get into he boat and dreamily push out to sea , throw he line as he do so . he soon pass the other fishing boat and leave they behind he till they be lose to sight in the distance , and he boat drift further and further out upon the blue water . somehow , he know not why , he feel unusually happy that morning ; and he could not help wish that , like the tortoise he set free the day before , he have thousand of year to live instead of he own short span of human life . he be suddenly startle from he reverie by hear he own name call : `` Urashima , Urashima ! '' clear as a bell and soft as the summer wind the name float over the sea . he stand up and look in every direction , think that one of the other boat have overtake he , but gaze as he might over the wide expanse of water , near or far there be no sign of a boat , so the voice could not have come from any human being . Startled , and wonder who or what it be that have call he so clearly , he look in all direction round about he and see that without he know it a tortoise have come to the side of the boat . Urashima see with surprise that it be the very tortoise he have rescue the day before . `` well , Mr. Tortoise , '' say Urashima , `` be it you who call my name just now ? '' the tortoise nod its head several time and say : `` Yes , it be I. yesterday in you honorable shadow -lrb-B- o kage sama de -rrb-B- my life be save , and I have come to offer you my thanks and to tell you how grateful I be for you kindness to I . '' `` indeed , '' say Urashima , `` that be very polite of you . come up into the boat . I would offer you a smoke , but as you be a tortoise doubtless you do not smoke , '' and the fisherman laugh at the joke . `` he-he-he-he ! '' laugh the tortoise ; `` sake -lrb-B- rice wine -rrb-B- be my favorite refreshment , but I do not care for tobacco . '' `` indeed , '' say Urashima , `` I regret very much that I have no `` sake '' in my boat to offer you , but come up and dry you back in the sun -- tortoise always love to do that . '' so the tortoise climb into the boat , the fisherman help he , and after a exchange of complimentary speech the tortoise say : `` have you ever see Rin Gin , the Palace of the Dragon King of the Sea , Urashima ? '' the fisherman shake he head and reply ; `` no ; year after year the sea have be my home , but though I have often hear of the Dragon King 's realm under the sea I have never yet set eye on that wonderful place . it must be very far away , if it exist at all ! '' `` be that really so ? you have never see the Sea King 's Palace ? then you have miss see one of the most wonderful sight in the whole universe . it be far away at the bottom of the sea , but if I take you there we shall soon reach the place . if you would like to see the Sea King 's land I will be you guide . '' `` I should like to go there , certainly , and you be very kind to think of take I , but you must remember that I be only a poor mortal and have not the power of swimming like a sea creature such as you be -- '' before the fisherman could say more the tortoise stop he , say : `` what ? you need not swim yourself . if you will ride on my back I will take you without any trouble on you part . '' `` but , '' say Urashima , `` how be it possible for I to ride on you small back ? '' `` it may seem absurd to you . but I assure you that you can do so . try at once ! just come and get on my back , and see if it be as impossible as you think ! '' as the tortoise finish speaking , Urashima look at its shell , and strange to say be see that the creature have suddenly grow so big that a man could easily sit on its back . `` this be strange indeed ! '' say Urashima ; `` then . Mr. Tortoise , with you kind permission I will get on you back . Dokoisho ! '' -lrb-B- footnote : `` all right '' -lrb-B- only use by lower class -rrb-B- . -rrb-B- he exclaim as he jump on . the tortoise , with a unmoved face , as if this strange proceeding be quite a ordinary event , say : `` now we will set out at we leisure , '' and with these word he leap into the sea with Urashima on he back . down through the water the tortoise dive . for a long time these two strange companion ride through the sea . Urashima never grow tired , nor he clothes moist with the water . at last , far away in the distance a magnificent gate appear , and behind the gate , the long , slope roof of a palace on the horizon . `` ya . '' exclaimed Urashima . `` that look like the gate of some large palace just appear ! Mr. Tortoise , can you tell what that place be we can now see ? '' `` that be the great gate of the Rin Gin Palace , the large roof that you see behind the gate be the Sea King 's Palace itself . '' `` then we have at last come to the realm of the Sea King and to he Palace , '' say Urashima . `` yes , indeed , '' answer the tortoise , `` and do not you think we have come very quickly ? '' and while he be speak the tortoise reach the side of the gate . `` and here we be , and you must please walk from here . '' the tortoise now go in front , and speak to the gatekeeper , say : `` this be Urashima Taro , from the country of Japan . I have have the honor of bring he as a visitor to this kingdom . please show he the way . '' then the gatekeeper , who be a fish , at once lead the way through the gate before they . the red bream , the flounder , the sole , the cuttlefish , and all the chief vassal of the Dragon King of the Sea now come out with courtly bow to welcome the stranger . `` Urashima Sama , Urashima Sama ! welcome to the Sea Palace , the home of the Dragon King of the Sea . thrice welcome be you , have come from such a distant country . and you , Mr. Tortoise , we be greatly indebted to you for all you trouble in bring Urashima here . '' then , turn again to Urashima , they say , `` please follow we this way , '' and from here the whole band of fish become he guide . Urashima , be only a poor fisher lad , do not know how to behave in a palace ; but , strange though it be all to he , he do not feel ashamed or embarrassed , but follow he kind guide quite calmly where they lead to the inner palace . when he reach the portal a beautiful Princess with she attendant maiden come out to welcome he . she be more beautiful than any human being , and be robe in flow garment of red and soft green like the under side of a wave , and golden thread glimmer through the fold of she gown . she lovely black hair stream over she shoulder in the fashion of a king 's daughter many hundred of year ago , and when she speak she voice sound like music over the water . Urashima be lose in wonder while he look upon she , and he could not speak . then he remember that he ought to bow , but before he could make a low obeisance the Princess take he by the hand and lead he to a beautiful hall , and to the seat of honor at the upper end , and bid he be seat . `` Urashima Taro , it give I the highest pleasure to welcome you to my father 's kingdom , '' say the Princess . `` yesterday you set free a tortoise , and I have send for you to thank you for save my life , for I be that tortoise . now if you like you shall live here forever in the land of eternal youth , where summer never die and where sorrow never come , and I will be you bride if you will , and we will live together happily forever afterwards ! '' and as Urashima listen to she sweet word and gaze upon she lovely face he heart be fill with a great wonder and joy , and he answer she , wonder if it be not all a dream : `` thank you a thousand time for you kind speech . there be nothing I could wish for more than to be permit to stay here with you in this beautiful land , of which I have often hear , but have never see to this day . beyond all word , this be the most wonderful place I have ever see . '' while he be speak a train of fish appear , all dress in ceremonial , trail garment . one by one , silently and with stately step , they enter the hall , bear on coral tray delicacy of fish and seaweed , such as no one can dream of , and this wondrous feast be set before the bride and bridegroom . the bridal be celebrate with dazzling splendor , and in the Sea King 's realm there be great rejoicing . as soon as the young pair have pledge themselves in the wedding cup of wine , three time three , music be play , and song be sing , and fish with silver scale and golden tail step in from the wave and dance . Urashima enjoy himself with all he heart . never in he whole life have he sit down to such a marvelous feast . when the feast be over the Princes ask the bridegroom if he would like to walk through the palace and see all there be to be see . then the happy fisherman , follow he bride , the Sea King 's daughter , be show all the wonder of that enchanted land where youth and joy go hand in hand and neither time nor age can touch they . the palace be build of coral and adorn with pearl , and the beauty and wonder of the place be so great that the tongue fail to describe they . but , to Urashima , more wonderful than the palace be the garden that surround it . here be to be see at one time the scenery of the four different season ; the beauty of summer and winter , spring and autumn , be display to the wonder visitor at once . First , when he look to the east , the plum and cherry tree be see in full bloom , the nightingale sing in the pink avenue , and butterfly flit from flower to flower . look to the south all the tree be green in the fullness of summer , and the day cicalum and the night cricket chirrup loudly . look to the west the autumn maple be ablaze like a sunset sky , and the chrysanthemum be in perfection . look to the north the change make Urashima start , for the ground be silver white with snow , and tree and bamboo be also cover with snow and the pond be thick with ice . and each day there be new joy and new wonder for Urashima , and so great be he happiness that he forget everything , even the home he have leave behind and he parent and he own country , and three day pass without he even think of all he have leave behind . then he mind come back to he and he remember who he be , and that he do not belong to this wonderful land or the Sea King 's palace , and he say to himself : `` O dear ! I must not stay on here , for I have a old father and mother at home . what can have happen to they all this time ? how anxious they must have be these day when I do not return as usual . I must go back at once without let one more day pass . '' and he begin to prepare for the journey in great haste . then he go to he beautiful wife , the Princess , and bow low before she he say : `` indeed , I have be very happy with you for a long time , Otohime Sama '' -lrb-B- for that be she name -rrb-B- , `` and you have be kinder to I than any word can tell . but now I must say good-by . I must go back to my old parent . '' then Otohime Sama begin to weep , and say softly and sadly : `` be it not well with you here , Urashima , that you wish to leave I so soon ? where be the haste ? Stay with I yet another day only ! '' but Urashima have remember he old parent , and in Japan the duty to parent be stronger than everything else , stronger even than pleasure or love , and he would not be persuade , but answer : `` indeed , I must go . do not think that I wish to leave you . it be not that . I must go and see my old parent . let I go for one day and I will come back to you . '' `` then , '' say the Princess sorrowfully , `` there be nothing to be do . I will send you back to-day to you father and mother , and instead of try to keep you with I one more day , I shall give you this as a token of we love -- please take it back with you ; '' and she bring he a beautiful lacquer box tie about with a silken cord and tassel of red silk . Urashima have receive so much from the Princess already that he feel some compunction in take the gift , and say : `` it do not seem right for I to take yet another gift from you after all the many favor I have receive at you hand , but because it be you wish I will do so , '' and then he add : `` tell I what be this box ? '' `` that , '' answer the Princess `` be the tamate-bako -lrb-B- Box of the Jewel Hand -rrb-B- , and it contain something very precious . you must not open this box , whatever happen ! if you open it something dreadful will happen to you ! now promise I that you will never open this box ! '' and Urashima promise that he would never , never open the box whatever happen . then bidding good-by to Otohime Sama he go down to the seashore , the Princess and she attendant follow he , and there he find a large tortoise wait for he . he quickly mount the creature 's back and be carry away over the shine sea into the East . he look back to wave he hand to Otohime Sama till at last he could see she no more , and the land of the Sea King and the roof of the wonderful palace be lose in the far , far distance . then , with he face turn eagerly towards he own land , he look for the rising of the blue hill on the horizon before he . at last the tortoise carry he into the bay he know so well , and to the shore from whence he have set out . he step on to the shore and look about he while the tortoise ride away back to the Sea King 's realm . but what be the strange fear that seize Urashima as he stand and look about he ? why do he gaze so fixedly at the people that pass he by , and why do they in turn stand and look at he ? the shore be the same and the hill be the same , but the people that he see walk past he have very different face to those he have know so well before . wonder what it can mean he walk quickly towards he old home . even that look different , but a house stand on the spot , and he call out : `` Father , I have just return ! '' and he be about to enter , when he see a strange man come out . `` perhaps my parent have move while I have be away , and have go somewhere else , '' be the fisherman 's thought . somehow he begin to feel strangely anxious , he could not tell why . `` excuse I , '' say he to the man who be stare at he , `` but till within the last few day I have live in this house . my name be Urashima Taro . where have my parent go whom I leave here ? '' a very bewildered expression come over the face of the man , and , still gaze intently on Urashima 's face , he say : `` what ? be you Urashima Taro ? '' `` yes , '' say the fisherman , `` I be Urashima Taro ! '' `` Ha , ha ! '' laugh the man , `` you must not make such joke . it be true that once upon a time a man call Urashima Taro do live in this village , but that be a story three hundred year old . he could not possibly be alive now ! '' when Urashima hear these strange word he be frighten , and say : `` please , please , you must not joke with I , I be greatly perplex . I be really Urashima Taro , and I certainly have not live three hundred year . till four or five day ago I live on this spot . tell I what I want to know without more joking , please . '' but the man 's face grow more and more grave , and he answer : `` you may or may not be Urashima Taro , I do not know . but the Urashima Taro of whom I have hear be a man who live three hundred year ago . perhaps you be he spirit come to revisit you old home ? '' `` why do you mock I ? '' say Urashima . `` I be no spirit ! I be a living man -- do you not see my foot ; '' and `` don-don , '' he stamp on the ground , first with one foot and then with the other to show the man . -lrb-B- japanese ghost have no foot . -rrb-B- `` but Urashima Taro live three hundred year ago , that be all I know ; it be write in the village chronicle , `` persist the man , who could not believe what the fisherman say . Urashima be lose in bewilderment and trouble . he stand look all around he , terribly puzzle , and , indeed , something in the appearance of everything be different to what he remember before he go away , and the awful feeling come over he that what the man say be perhaps true . he seem to be in a strange dream . the few day he have spend in the Sea King 's palace beyond the sea have not be day at all : they have be hundred of year , and in that time he parent have die and all the people he have ever know , and the village have write down he story . there be no use in staying here any longer . he must get back to he beautiful wife beyond the sea . he make he way back to the beach , carry in he hand the box which the Princess have give he . but which be the way ? he could not find it alone ! suddenly he remember the box , the tamate-bako . `` the Princess tell I when she give I the box never to open it -- that it contain a very precious thing . but now that I have no home , now that I have lose everything that be dear to I here , and my heart grow thin with sadness , at such a time , if I open the box , surely I shall find something that will help I , something that will show I the way back to my beautiful Princess over the sea . there be nothing else for I to do now . yes , yes , I will open the box and look in ! '' and so he heart consent to this act of disobedience , and he try to persuade himself that he be do the right thing in break he promise . slowly , very slowly , he untie the red silk cord , slowly and wonderingly he lift the lid of the precious box . and what do he find ? strange to say only a beautiful little purple cloud rise out of the box in three soft wisp . for a instant it cover he face and waver over he as if loath to go , and then it float away like vapor over the sea . Urashima , who have be till that moment like a strong and handsome youth of twenty-four , suddenly become very , very old . he back double up with age , he hair turn snowy white , he face wrinkle and he fall down dead on the beach . Poor Urashima ! because of he disobedience he could never return to the Sea King 's realm or the lovely Princess beyond the sea . little child , never be disobedient to those who be wiser than you for disobedience be the beginning of all the misery and sorrow of life .