the barber-shop AGAIN Arthur Scott Bailey although Fatty Coon never could get Jimmy Rabbit and he brother to play barber-shop with he again , Fatty see no reason why he should not play the game without they . so one day he lead he brother Blackie over to the old hollow sycamore . he sister , Fluffy and Cutey , want to go too . but Fatty would not let they . `` girl can not be barber , '' he say . and of course they could find no answer to that . as soon as Fatty and Blackie reach the old sycamore I be sorry to say that a dispute arise . each of they want to use he own tail for the barber 's pole . they could not both stick they tail through the hole in the tree at the same time . so they finally agree to take turn . play barber-shop be not so much fun as they have expect , because nobody would come near to get he hair cut . you see , the smaller forest - people be all afraid to go inside that old sycamore where Fatty and Blackie be . there be no tell when the two brother might get so hungry they would seize and eat a rabbit or a squirrel or a chipmunk . and you know it be not wise to run any such risk as that . Fatty offer to cut Blackie 's hair . but Blackie remember what he mother have say when Fatty come home with he moustache go and he head all rough and uneven . so Blackie would not let fatty touch he . but he offer to cut Fatty 's hair -- what there be leave of it . `` no , thank you ! '' say Fatty . `` I only get my hair cut once a month . '' of course , he have never have he hair cut except that once , in he whole life . now , since there be so little to do inside the hollow tree , Fatty and Blackie keep quarrel . Blackie would no sooner stick he tail through the hole in the side of the tree than Fatty would want he turn . and when Fatty have succeed in squeeze he tail out through the opening Blackie would insist that Fatty 's time be up . it be Fatty 's turn , and Blackie be shout to he to stand aside and give he a chance . `` I will not ! '' say Fatty . `` I be go to stay here just as long as I please . '' the word be hardly out of he mouth when he give a sharp squeal , as if something hurt he . and he try to pull he tail out of the hole . he want to get it out now . but alas ! it would not come ! it be catch fast ! and the harder Fatty pull the more it hurt he . `` go out and see what be the matter ! '' he cry to Blackie . but Blackie would not stir . he be afraid to leave the shelter of the hollow tree . `` it may be a bear that have hold of you tail , '' he tell Fatty . and somehow , that idea make fatty tremble all over . `` oh , dear ! oh , dear ! '' he wail . `` what shall I do ? oh ! whatever shall I do ? '' he begin to cry . and Blackie cry too . how Fatty wish that he mother be there to tell he what to do ! but he know of no way to fetch she . even if she be at home she could never hear he call from inside the tree . so Fatty give up all hope of she help . `` please , Mr. Bear , let go of my tail ! '' he cry , when he could stand the pain no longer . the only answer that come be a low growl , which frighten Fatty and Blackie more than ever . and then , just as they both begin to howl at the top of they voice Fatty 's tail be suddenly free . he be pull on it so hard that he fall all in a heap on the floor of the barber-shop . and that surprise he . but he be still more surprised when he hear he mother say -- `` Stop cry and come out -- both of you ! '' Fatty and Blackie scramble out of the hollow sycamore . Fatty look all around . but there be no bear to be see anywhere -- no one but he mother . `` do you frighten the bear away , Mother ? '' he ask . `` there be no bear , '' Mrs. Coon tell he . `` and it be lucky for you that there be not . I see you tail stick out of this tree and I think I would teach you a lesson . now , do not ever do such a foolish thing again . just think what a fix you would have be in if Johnnie Green have come along . he could have catch you just as easily as anything . '' Fatty Coon be so glad to be free once more that he promise to be good forever after . and he be just as good as any little coon could be -- all the rest of that day .