the RHEMESE La Fontain no city I to Rheims would e ` er prefer : of France the pride and honor I aver ; the Holy Ampoule \* and delicious wine , which ev ` ry one regard as most divine , we 'll set apart , and other object take : the beauty round a paradise might make ! I mean not tow ` r nor church , gate , nor street ; but charming belle with soft enchant sweet : such oft among the fair rhemese we view : KingsS might be proud those grace to pursue . one ` mong these belle have to the altar lead , a painter , much esteem , and who have bread . what more be requisite ! -- he live at ease , and by he occupation seek to please . a happy woman all believe he wife ; the husband 's talent please she to the life : for gallantry howe'er he be renown , and many be ` rous dame , who dwell around , would seek the artist with a double aim : so all we chronicle record he fame . but since much penetration 's not my boast , I just believe -- what be requisite at most . WHENE ` er the painter have in hand a fair , he would jest he wife , and laugh with easy air ; but Hymen 's rights proceeding as they ought , with jealous fear she breast be never fraught . she might indeed repay he trick in kind , and gratify , in soft amours , she mind , except that she less confidence have show , and be not lead to he the truth to own . among the man attract by she smile , two neighbor , much delighted with she wiles ; be often tempt , by she sprightly wit , to listen to she chat , and with she sit ; for she have far the most engaging mien , of any charmer that around be see . Superior understanding she possess ; Though fond of laughter , frolick , fun , and jest . she to she husband presently disclose the love these cit-gallants to she propose ; both know for arrant blockhead through the town , and ever boast of they own renown . to he she give they various speech , tone , each silly air : they tear , and sigh , and groan ; they would read , or rather hear , we may believe , that , when in love , with sigh fond bosom heave . they utmost to succeed these coxcomb try , and seem convinced they should not be deny ; a common cause they would the business hold , and what one know the other must be tell . Whichever first a favor might obtain , should tell he happiness to t ` other swain . YE FAIR ` tis thus they oft you kindness treat : the pleasure that he wish alone be sweet . love , be no more ; of t ` other , lay in earth , we have here no trace scarcely from the birth . you serve for sport and prey , to giddy youth , Devoid of talent , principle , and truth . ` Tis right they should suppose , still two be find ; who take they course continually round . the first that in you pleasure grounds appear ; I would have you , on he wing , to use the shears . OUR lady then , she lover to deceive , one day observe -- you shall , my friend , this eve ; drink wine with I : -- my husband will away , and , what be delightful , till to-morrow stay ; we shall ourselves be able to amuse , and laugh , and sing , and talk as we may choose . ` ti excellent , cried they : thing well you frame ; and at the promised hour , the hero come . when introduce , and all suppose clear , a sudden knock turn they joy to fear ; the door be bar ; she to the window fly ; I think , say she , that be to the master due ; and should it prove to be as I suspect : -- ` tis he , I vow : -- fly , hide , he 'll you detect ; some accident , suspicion , or design , have bring he back to sleep , I now divine : OUR two gallant , when danger round they press , a closet enter , mightily distressed ; to get away ` twere folly to have try ; the husband come , the roast he quickly spy ; with pigeon too , in diff ` rent fashion cook ; why , hey ! say he , as round about he look : what guest have you that supper you prepare ? the wife reply : two neighbor taste we fare : Sweet Alice , and good Simonetta , mean to-night , at table with we to be see ; I be quite rejoice to think that you be here : the company will more complete appear ; these dame will , by you presence , nothing lose ; I 'll run and hasten they : ` twill you amuse ; the whole be ready ; I 'll at once away , and beg , in come , they 'll no more delay . the lady name be wife of we gallant , so fond of contraband , and smuggle grant , who , vex to be confine , still praise the dame , for skew such address to ` scape from blame . she soon return , and with she bring the FAIR , who , gaily sing , enter free from care . the painter they receive with bow and kiss ; to praise they beauty he be not remiss ; they dress be charming ; all he much admire ; they presence frolick , fun , and jest inspire , which no way please the husband in the cage , who see the freak with mark of burst rage : the door half open give a view complete , how freely he they wife be lead to treat . thing thus commence , the supper next be serve ; from playful trick the painter never swerve , but place himself at table ` twist the two , and jest and frolicking would still pursue . to woman , wine , and fun , say he , I drink ; put round the toast ; none from it e ` er must shrink ; the order be obey ; the glass oft fill the party soon have all the liquor swill : the wife just then , it seem , no servant keep ; more wine to get , she to the cellar stept . but dread ghost , she Simonetta pray ; to light she down , she be so much afraid . the painter be alone with Alice leave , a country belle , of beauty not bereft : Slight , nicely make , with rather pretty face , she think herself possess of ev ` ry grace , and , in a country town , she well might get the appellation of a gay coquette . the wily spark , perceive no one near ; soon run from compliment to sweet and dear ; she lip assail ; -- the tucker draw aside , and steal a kiss that hurt she husband 's pride , who all beheld ; but spouse , that be sage , no trifle heed , nor peccadillo page ; Though , doubtless , when such meeting be possess , the simple kiss give room to dread the rest ; for when the devil whisper in the ear of one that sleep , he wake at once to fear . the husband , howsoe'er , at length perceive still more concession , which he bosom grieve ; while on the neck a hand appear to please , the other wander equally at ease ; be not offended , love ! be often say ; to frantick rage the sight she sposo lead , who , beat in he hat , be on the move to sally forth , he wrath to let they prove , to thrash he wife , and force she spark to feel he nervous arm could quickly make he reel . be not so silly , whisper t ` other Wight ; to stir up noise could ne'er be reckon right ; be quiet now : consider where we be ; keep close , or else you 'll all we pleasure mar ; remember , write ` tis , by other do the same as you would like they should by you ; ` ti proper in this place we should remain till all be hush in sleep : then freedom gain ; that be my opinion how we ought to act be you not half a cuckold now , in fact ? Fair Alice have consent : - that be enough ; the rest be mere compliance , nonsense , stuff ! the husband seem the reason to approve ; some slight attempt the lady make to move ; no time for more . what then ? you ask : -- why , then -- the lady put she cap to rights agen ; no mark appear suspicion to awake , except she cheek a scarlet hue might take . mere trifle that ; from talk it might spring ; and other cause , doubtless , we could bring . one of the belle , howe'er , who go for wine , smile , on return , at the blush sign : the painter 's wife ; but soon they fill each glass , and briskly round the bottle seem to pass ; they drink the host , the hostess , and the FAIR , who , ` mong the three , should first she wish share . AT length , a second time the bottle fail ; the hostess ' fear of ghost again prevail , and mistress Alice now for escort go , Though much she wish the other to have send ; with Simonetta she be force to change , and leave the painter at he ease to range . THIS dame at first appear to be severe would leave the room , and feign to be sincere ; but when the painter seize she by the gown , she prudence show , and fear he would pull she down ; she clothes might tear , which lead she to remain : on this the husband scarcely could contain ; he seem resolve he hide place to leave ; but instantly the other pull he sleeve ; be easy friend , say he , it be but right , that equal favor we should have to-night , and cuckoldom should take you to he care , that we alike in ev ` ry thing may fare . be we not brother in adventure , pray ? and such we solemn promise , to-day . since one the painter clearly have disgrace , the other equally should be embrace . in spite of ev ` ry thing you now advance , you wife as well as mine shall have a dance ; a hand I 'll lend , if want it be find ; say what you will , I 'll see she have she round . she have it then : -- we painter try to please ; the lady equally appear at ease ; Full time the other give , and when they come , more wine be not require by spark nor dame ; 'Twas late , and for the day enough he would do ; good night be say : they course the belle have run ; the painter , satisfy , retire to rest ; the gay gallant , who lay so long distressed , the wily hostess from the closet draw , Abashed , disconsolate , and cuckold too ; still worse to think , with all they care and pain ; that neither of they could he wish obtain , or e ` en return the dame what she procure they wife , whom she so cleverly allure . here end we tale ; the business be complete ; in soft amours success alone be sweet . \* the Saint Ampoule , or Holy Ampulla , a vial say to have descend from heaven , in which be oil for anoint the king of France at the coronation , and formerly keep at Rheims .