the tale of PETER RABBIT BY BEATRIX POTTER Beatrix Potter once upon a time there be four little rabbit , and they name be -- Flopsy , Mopsy , Cotton-tail , and Peter . they live with they Mother in a sand-bank , underneath the root of a very big fir tree . `` now , my dear , '' say old Mrs. Rabbit one morning , `` you may go into the field or down the lane , but do not go into Mr. McGregor 's garden : you Father have a accident there ; he be put in a pie by Mrs. McGregor . '' `` now run along , and do not get into mischief . I be go out . '' then old Mrs. Rabbit take a basket and she umbrella , to the baker 's . she buy a loaf of brown bread and five currant bun . FLOPSY , Mopsy , and Cottontail , who be good little bunny , go down the lane to gather blackberry ; BUT Peter , who be very naughty , run straight away to Mr. McGregor 's garden and squeeze under the gate ! FIRST he eat some lettuce and some french bean ; and then he eat some radish ; and then , feel rather sick , he go to look for some parsley . BUT round the end of a cucumber frame , whom should he meet but Mr. McGregor ! MR. McGREGOR be on he hand and knee plant out young cabbage , but he jump up and run after Peter , wave a rake and call out , `` Stop thief ! '' PETER be most dreadfully frightened ; he rush all over the garden , for he have forget the way back to the gate . he lose one of he shoe among the cabbage , and the other shoe amongst the potato . after lose they , he run on four leg and go faster , so that I think he might have get away altogether if he have not unfortunately run into a gooseberry net , and get catch by the large button on he jacket . it be a blue jacket with brass button , quite new . PETER give himself up for lose , and shed big tear ; but he sob be overhear by some friendly sparrow , who fly to he in great excitement , and implore he to exert himself . MR. McGREGOR come up with a sieve , which he intend to pop upon the top of Peter ; but Peter wriggle out just in time , leave he jacket behind he . AND rush into the toolshed , and jump into a can . it would have be a beautiful thing to hide in , if it have not have so much water in it . MR. McGREGOR be quite sure that Peter be somewhere in the toolshed , perhaps hide underneath a flower-pot . he begin to turn they over carefully , look under each . presently Peter sneeze -- `` Kertyschoo ! '' Mr. McGregor be after he in no time , and try to put he foot upon Peter , who jump out of a window , upset three plant . the window be too small for Mr. McGregor , and he be tire of run after Peter . he go back to he work . PETER sit down to rest ; he be out of breath and tremble with fright , and he have not the least idea which way to go . also he be very damp with sit in that can . after a time he begin to wander about , go lippity -- lippity -- not very fast , and look all around . he find a door in a wall ; but it be lock , and there be no room for a fat little rabbit to squeeze underneath . a old mouse be run in and out over the stone doorstep , carry pea and bean to she family in the wood . Peter ask she the way to the gate , but she have such a large pea in she mouth that she could not answer . she only shake she head at he . Peter begin to cry . then he try to find he way straight across the garden , but he become more and more puzzle . presently , he come to a pond where Mr. McGregor fill he water-cans . a white cat be stare at some gold-fish ; she sit very , very still , but now and then the tip of she tail twitch as if it be alive . Peter think it best to go away without speak to she ; he have hear about cat from he cousin , little Benjamin Bunny . he go back towards the tool-shed , but suddenly , quite close to he , he hear the noise of a hoe -- scr-r-ritch , scratch , scratch , scritch . Peter scutter underneath the bush . but presently , as nothing happen , he come out , and climb upon a wheelbarrow , and peep over . the first thing he see be Mr. McGregor hoe onion . he back be turn towards Peter , and beyond he be the gate ! PETER get down very quietly off the wheelbarrow , and start run as fast as he could go , along a straight walk behind some black-currant bush . Mr. McGregor catch sight of he at the corner , but Peter do not care . he slip underneath the gate , and be safe at last in the wood outside the garden . MR. McGREGOR hang up the little jacket and the shoe for a scare-crow to frighten the blackbird . PETER never stop run or look behind he till he get home to the big fir-tree . he be so tired that he flop down upon the nice soft sand on the floor of the rabbit-hole , and shut he eye . he mother be busy cooking ; she wonder what he have do with he clothes . it be the second little jacket and pair of shoe that Peter have lose in a fortnight ! I be sorry to say that Peter be not very well during the evening . he mother put he to bed , and make some camomile tea ; and she give a dose of it to Peter ! `` one table-spoonful to be take at bed-time . '' BUT Flopsy , Mopsy , and Cotton-tail have bread and milk and blackberry , for supper . the end