64 the Golden Goose BrothersS Grimm there be a man who have three son , the youngest of whom be call Dummling , and be despise , mock , and put down on every occasion . it happen that the eldest want to go into the forest to hew wood , and before he go he mother give he a beautiful sweet cake and a bottle of wine in order that he might not suffer from hunger or thirst . when he enter the forest there meet he a little grey-haired old man who bid he good-day , and say , `` do give I a piece of cake out of you pocket , and let I have a draught of you wine ; I be so hungry and thirsty . '' but the prudent youth answer , `` if I give you my cake and wine , I shall have none for myself ; be off with you , '' and he leave the little man standing and go on . but when he begin to hew down a tree , it be not long before he make a false stroke , and the axe cut he in the arm , so that he have to go home and have it bind up . and this be the little gray man 's do . after this the second son go into the forest , and he mother give he , like the eldest , a cake and a bottle of wine . the little old gray man meet he likewise , and ask he for a piece of cake and a drink of wine . but the second son , too , say with much reason , `` what I give you will be take away from myself ; be off ! '' and he leave the little man standing and go on . he punishment , however , be not delay ; when he have make a few stroke at the tree he strike himself in the leg , so that he have to be carry home . then Dummling say , `` Father , do let I go and cut wood . '' the father answer , `` you brother have hurt themselves with it , leave it alone , you do not understand anything about it . '' but Dummling beg so long that at last he say , `` just go then , you will get wiser by hurt yourself . '' he mother give he a cake make with water and baked in the cinder , and with it a bottle of sour beer . when he come to the forest the little old gray man meet he likewise , and greet he , say , `` give I a piece of you cake and a drink out of you bottle ; I be so hungry and thirsty . '' dummle answer , `` I have only cinder-cake and sour beer ; if that please you , we will sit down and eat . '' so they sit down , and when Dummling pull out he cinder-cake , it be a fine sweet cake , and the sour beer have become good wine . so they eat and drank , and after that the little man say , `` since you have a good heart , and be willing to divide what you have , I will give you good luck . there stand a old tree , cut it down , and you will find something at the root . '' then the little man take leave of he . Dummling go and cut down the tree , and when it fall there be a goose sit in the root with feather of pure gold . he lift she up , and take she with he , go to a inn where he think he would stay the night . now the host have three daughter , who see the goose and be curious to know what such a wonderful bird might be , and would have like to have one of its golden feather . the eldest thought , `` I shall soon find a opportunity of pull out a feather , '' and as soon as Dummling have go out she seize the goose by the wing , but she finger and hand remain stick fast to it . the second come soon afterwards , think only of how she might get a feather for herself , but she have scarcely touch she sister than she be hold fast . at last the third also come with the like intent , and the other scream out , `` keep away ; for goodness ' sake keep away ! '' but she do not understand why she be to keep away . `` the other be there , '' she think , `` I may as well be there too , '' and run to they ; but as soon as she have touch she sister , she remain stick fast to she . so they have to spend the night with the goose . the next morning Dummling take the goose under he arm and set out , without trouble himself about the three girl who be hang on to it . they be oblige to run after he continually , now leave , now right , just as he be incline to go . in the middle of the field the parson meet they , and when he see the procession he say , `` for shame , you good-for-nothing girl , why be you run across the field after this young man ? be that seemly ? '' at the same time he seize the youngest by the hand in order to pull she away , but as soon as he touch she he likewise stick fast , and be himself oblige to run behind . before long the sexton come by and see he master , the parson , run behind three girl . he be astonish at this and call out , `` Hi , you reverence , whither away so quickly ? do not forget that we have a christen to-day ! '' and run after he he take he by the sleeve , but be also hold fast to it . whilst the five be trot thus one behind the other , two labourer come with they hoe from the field ; the parson call out to they and beg that they would set he and the sexton free . but they have scarcely touch the sexton when they be hold fast , and now there be seven of they run behind Dummling and the goose . soon afterwards he come to a city , where a king rule who have a daughter who be so serious that no one could make she laugh . so he have put forth a decree that whosoever should be able to make she laugh should marry she . when Dummling hear this , he go with he goose and all she train before the King 's daughter , and as soon as she see the seven people run on and on , one behind the other , she begin to laugh quite loudly , and as if she would never leave off . Thereupon Dummling ask to have she for he wife , and the wedding be celebrate . after the King 's death , Dummling inherit the kingdom and live a long time contentedly with he wife .