200 the Golden Key BrothersS Grimm in the winter time , when deep snow lay on the ground , a poor boy be force to go out on a sledge to fetch wood . when he have gather it together , and pack it , he wish , as he be so frozen with cold , not to go home at once , but to light a fire and warm himself a little . so he scrape away the snow , and as he be thus clear the ground , he find a tiny , gold key . Hereupon he think that where the key be , the lock must be also , and dig in the ground and find a iron chest . `` if the key do but fit it ! '' thought he ; `` no doubt there be precious thing in that little box . '' he search , but no keyhole be there . at last he discover one , but so small that it be hardly visible . he try it , and the key fit it exactly . then he turn it once round , and now we must wait until he have quite unlock it and open the lid , and then we shall learn what wonderful thing be lie in that box . ----------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------------------------------------- Children 's Legends Legend 1 St. Joseph in the Forest there be once on a time a mother who have three daughter , the eldest of whom be rude and wicked , the second much better , although she have she fault , but the youngest be a pious , good child . the mother be , however , so strange , that it be just the eldest daughter whom she most love , and she could not bear the youngest . on this account , she often send the poor girl out into the great forest in order to get rid of she , for she think she would lose herself and never come back again . but the guardian-angel which every good child have , do not forsake she , but always bring she into the right path again . once , however , the guardian-angel behave as if he be not there , and the child could not find she way out of the forest again . she walk on constantly until evening come , and then she see a tiny light burning in the distance , run up to it at once , and come to a little hut . she knock , the door open , and she come to a second door , where she knock again . a old man , who have a snow-white beard and look venerable , open it for she ; and he be no other than St. Joseph . he say quite kindly , `` come , dear child , seat thyself on my little chair by the fire , and warm thyself ; I will fetch thee clear water if thou art thirsty ; but here in the forest , I have nothing for thee to eat but a couple of little root , which thou must first scrape and boil . '' St. Joseph give she the root . the girl scrape they clean , then she bring a piece of pancake and the bread that she mother have give she to take with she ; mixed all together in a pan , and cook herself a thick soup . when it be ready , St. Joseph say , `` I be so hungry ; give I some of thy food . '' the child be quite willing , and give he more than she keep for herself , but God 's blessing be with she , so that she be satisfy . when they have eat , St. Joseph say , `` now we will go to bed ; I have , however , only one bed , lay thyself in it . I will lie on the ground on the straw . '' `` no , '' answer she , `` stay in you own bed , the straw be soft enough for I . '' St. Joseph , however , take the child in he arm , and carry she into the little bed , and there she say she prayer , and fall asleep . next morning when she awake , she want to say good morning to St. Joseph , but she do not see he . then she get up and look for he , but could not find he anywhere ; at last she perceive , behind the door , a bag with money so heavy that she could just carry it , and on it be write that it be for the child who have sleep there that night . on this she take the bag , bound away with it , and get safely to she mother , and as she give she mother all the money , she could not help be satisfy with she . the next day , the second child also take a fancy to go into the forest . she mother give she a much larger piece of pancake and bread . it happen with she just as with the first child . in the evening she come to St. Joseph 's little hut , who give she root for a thick soup . when it be ready , he likewise say to she , `` I be so hungry , give I some of thy food . '' then the child say , `` you may have you share . '' afterwards , when St. Joseph offer she he bed and want to lie on the straw , she reply , `` no , lie down in the bed , there be plenty of room for both of we . '' St. Joseph take she in he arm and put she in the bed , and lay himself on the straw . in the morning when the child awake and look for St. Joseph , he have vanish , but behind the door she find a little sack of money that be about as long as a hand , and on it be write that it be for the child who have sleep there last night . so she take the little bag and run home with it , and take it to she mother , but she secretly keep two piece for herself . the eldest daughter have by this time grow curious , and the next morning also insist on go out into the forest . she mother give she pancake with she -- as many as she want , and bread and cheese as well . in the evening she find St. Joseph in he little hut , just as the two other have find he . when the soup be ready and St. Joseph say , `` I be so hungry , give I some of thy food , '' the girl answer , `` wait until I be satisfied ; then if there be anything leave thou shalt have it . '' she eat , however , nearly the whole of it , and St. Joseph have to scrape the dish . afterwards , the good old man offer she he bed , and want to lie on the straw . she take it without make any opposition , lay herself down in the little bed , and leave the hard straw to the white-haired man . next morning when she awake , St. Joseph be not to be find , but she do not trouble herself about that . she look behind the door for a money-bag . she fancy something be lie on the ground , but as she could not very well distinguish what it be , she stoop down , and examine it closely , but it remain hang to she nose , and when she get up again , she see , to she horror , that it be a second nose , which be hang fast to she own . then she begin to scream and howl , but that do no good ; she be force to see it always on she nose , for it stretch out so far . then she run out and scream without stop till she meet St. Joseph , at whose foot she fall and beg until , out of pity , he take the nose off she again , and even give she two farthing . when she get home , she mother be stand before the door , and ask , `` what hast thou have give to thee ? '' then she lie and say , `` a great bag of money , but I have lose it on the way . '' `` lose it ! '' cry the mother , `` oh , but we will soon find it again , '' and take she by the hand , and want to seek it with she . at first she begin to cry , and do not wish to go , but at last she go . on the way , however , so many lizard and snake break loose on both of they , that they do not know how to save themselves . at last they sting the wicked child to death , and they sting the mother in the foot , because she have not bring she up better . Legend 2 the Twelve Apostles Three hundred year before the birth of the Lord Christ , there live a mother who have twelve son , but be so poor and needy that she no longer know how she be to keep they alive at all . she pray to God daily that he would grant that all she son might be on the earth with the Redeemer who be promise . when she necessity become still greater she send one of they after the other out into the world to seek bread for she . the eldest be call Peter , and he go out and have already walk a long way , a whole day 's journey , when he come into a great forest . he seek for a way out , but could find none , and go farther and farther astray , and at the same time feel such great hunger that he could scarcely stand . at length he become so weak that he be force to lie down , and he believe death to be at hand . suddenly there stand beside he a small boy who shine with brightness , and be as beautiful and kind as a angel . the child smite he little hand together , until Peter be force to look up and see he . then the child say , `` why art thou sit there in such trouble ? '' `` Alas ! '' answer Peter , `` I be go about the world seek bread , that I may yet see the dear Saviour who be promise , that be my greatest desire . '' the child say , `` come with I , and thy wish shall be fulfil . '' he take poor Peter by the hand , and lead he between some cliff to a great cavern . when they enter it , everything be shine with gold , silver , and crystal , and in the midst of it twelve cradle be standing side by side . then say the little angel , `` lie down in the first , and sleep a while , I will rock thee . '' Peter do so , and the angel sing to he and rock he until he be al seep . and when he be asleep , the second brother come also , guide thither by he guardian angel , and he be rock to sleep like the first , and thus come the other , one after the other , until all twelve lay there sleep in the golden cradle . they sleep , however , three hundred year , until the night when the Saviour of the world be bear . then they awake , and be with he on earth , and be call the twelve apostle . Legend 3 The Rose there be once a poor woman who have two child . the youngest have to go every day into the forest to fetch wood . once when she have go a long way to seek it , a little child , who be quite strong , come and help she industriously to pick up the wood and carry it home , and then before a moment have pass the strange child disappear . the child tell she mother this , but at first she would not believe it . at length she bring a rise home , and tell she mother that the beautiful child have give she this rise , and have tell she that when it be in full bloom , he would return . the mother put the rose in water . one morning she child could not get out of bed , the mother go to the bed and find she dead , but she lay look very happy . on the same morning , the rose be in full bloom . Legend 4 Poverty and Humility lead to Heaven there be once a King 's son who go out into the world , and he be full of thought and sad . he look at the sky , which be so beautifully pure and blue , then he sigh , and say , `` how well must all be with one up there in heaven ! '' then he see a poor gray-haired man who be come along the road towards he , and he speak to he , and ask , `` how can I get to heaven ? '' the man answer , `` by poverty and humility . put on my ragged clothes , wander about the world for seven year , and get to know what misery be , take no money , but if thou art hungry ask compassionate heart for a bit of bread ; in this way thou wilt reach heaven . '' then the King 's son take off he magnificent coat , and wear in its place the beggar 's garment , go out into the wide world , and suffer great misery . he take nothing but a little food , say nothing , but pray to the Lord to take he into he heaven . when the seven year be over , he return to he father 's palace , but no one recognize he . he say to the servant , `` go and tell my parent that I have come back again . '' but the servant do not believe it , and laugh and leave he stand there . then say he , `` go and tell it to my brother that they may come down , for I should so like to see they again . '' the servant would not do that either , but at last one of they go , and tell it to the King 's child , but these do not believe it , and do not trouble themselves about it . then he write a letter to he mother , and describe to she all he misery , but he do not say that he be she son . so , out of pity , the Queen have a place under the stair assign to he , and food take to he daily by two servant . but one of they be ill-natured and say , `` why should the beggar have the good food ? '' and keep it for himself , or give it to the dog , and take the weak , wasted-away beggar nothing but water ; the other , however , be honest , and take the beggar what be send to he . it be little , but he could live on it for a while , and all the time he be quite patient , but he grow continually weaker . as , however , he illness increase , he desire to receive the last sacrament . when the host be be elevate down below , all the bell in the town and neighborhood begin to ring . after mass the priest go to the poor man under the stair , and there he lay dead . in one hand he have a rose , in the other a lily , and beside he be a paper in which be write he history . when he be bury , a rose grow on one side of he grave , and a lily on the other . Legend 5 God 's Food there be once upon a time two sister , one of whom have no child and be rich , and the other have five and be a widow , and so poor that she no longer have food enough to satisfy herself and she child . in she need , therefore , she go to she sister , and say , `` my child and I be suffer the greatest hunger ; thou art rich , give I a mouthful of bread . '' the very rich sister be as hard as a stone , and say , `` I myself have nothing in the house , '' and drive away the poor creature with harsh word . after some time the husband of the rich sister come home , and be just go to cut himself a piece of bread , but when he make the first cut into the loaf , out flow red blood . when the woman see that she be terrify and tell he what have occur . he hurry away to help the widow and she child , but when he enter she room , he find she pray . she have she two youngest child in she arm , and the three eldest be lie dead . he offer she food , but she answer , `` for earthly food have we no longer any desire . God have already satisfy the hunger of three of we , and he will hearken to we supplication likewise . '' scarcely have she utter these word than the two little one draw they last breath , whereupon she heart break , and she sink down dead . Legend 6 the Three Green Twigs there be once on a time a hermit who live in a forest at the foot of a mountain , and pass he time in prayer and good work , and every evening he carry , to the glory of God , two pail of water up the mountain . many a beast drank of it , and many a plant be refresh by it , for on the height above , a strong wind blow continually , which dry the air and the ground , and the wild bird which dread mankind wheel about there , and with they sharp eye search for a drink . and because the hermit be so pious , a angel of God , visible to he eye , go up with he , count he step , and when the work be complete , bring he he food , even as the prophet of old be by God 's command feed by the raven . when the hermit in he piety have already reach a great age , it happen that he once see from afar a poor sinner be take to the gallows . he say carelessly to himself , `` there , that one be get he desert ! '' in the evening , when he be carry the water up the mountain , the angel who usually accompany he do not appear , and also bring he no food . then he be terrify , and search he heart , and try to think how he could have sin , as God be so angry , but he do not discover it . then he neither eat nor drank , throw himself down on the ground , and prayed day and night . and as he be one day thus bitterly weep in the forest , he hear a little bird sing beautifully and delightfully , and then he be still more troubled and say , `` how joyously thou singest , the Lord be not angry with thee . ah , if thou couldst but tell I how I can have offend he , that I might do penance , and then my heart also would be glad again . '' then the bird begin to speak and say , `` Thou hast do injustice , in that thou hast condemn a poor sinner who be be lead to the gallows , and for that the Lord be angry with thee . he alone sit in judgement . however , if thou wilt do penance and repent thy sin , he will forgive thee . '' then the angel stand beside he with a dry branch in he hand and say , `` Thou shalt carry this dry branch until three green twig sprout out of it , but at night when thou wilt sleep , thou shalt lay it under thy head . Thou shalt beg thy bread from door to door , and not tarry more than one night in the same house . that be the penance which the Lord lay on thee . '' then the hermit take the piece of wood , and go back into the world , which he have not see for so long . he eat and drink nothing but what be give he at the door ; many petition be , however , not listen to , and many door remain shut to he , so that he often do not get a crumb of bread . once when he have go from door to door from morning till night , and no one have give he anything , and no one would shelter he for the night , he go forth into a forest , and at last find a cave which someone have make , and a old woman be sit in it . then say he , `` good woman , keep I with you in you house for this night ; '' but she say , `` no , I dare not , even if I wish , I have three son who be wicked and wild , if they come home from they rob expedition , and find you , they would kill we both . '' the hermit say , `` let I stay , they will do no injury either to you or to I . '' and the woman be compassionate , and let herself be persuade . then the man lay down beneath the stair , and put the bit of wood under he head . when the old woman see he do that , she ask the reason of it , on which he tell she that he carry the bit of wood about with he for a penance , and use it at night for a pillow , and that he have offend the Lord , because , when he have see a poor sinner on the way to the gallows , he have say he be get he desert . then the woman begin to weep and cry , `` if the Lord thus punish one single word , how will it fare with my son when they appear before he in judgment ? '' at midnight the robber come home and bluster and storm . they make a fire , and when it have light up the cave and they see a man lie under the stair , they fall in a rage and cry to they mother , `` who be the man ? Have we not forbid any one whatsoever to be take in ? '' then say the mother , `` let he alone , it be a poor sinner who be expiate he crime . '' the robber ask , `` what have he do ? '' `` old man , '' cry they , `` tell we thy sin . '' the old man raise himself and tell they how he , by one single word , have so sin that God be angry with he , and how he be now expiate this crime . the robber be so powerfully touch in they heart by this story , that they be shock with they life up to this time , reflect , and begin with hearty repentance to do penance for it . the hermit , after he have convert the three sinner , lay down to sleep again under the stair . in the morning , however , they find he dead , and out of the dry wood on which he head lay , three green twig have grow up on high . thus the Lord have once more receive he into he favor . Legend 7 we Lady 's little glass once upon a time a waggoner 's cart which be heavily laden with wine have stick so fast that in spite of all that he could do , he could not get it to move again . then it chance that we Lady just happen to come by that way , and when she perceive the poor man 's distress , she say to he , `` I be tired and thirsty , give I a glass of wine , and I will set thy cart free for thee . '' `` willingly , '' answer the waggoner , `` but I have no glass in which I can give thee the wine . '' then we Lady pluck a little white flower with red stripe , call field bindweed , which look very like a glass , and give it to the waggoner . he fill it with wine , and then we Lady drank it , and in the self-same instant the cart be set free , and the waggoner could drive onward . the little flower be still always call we Lady 's Little Glass . Legend 8 the Aged Mother in a large town there be a old woman who sit in the evening alone in she room think how she have lose first she husband , then both she child , then one by one all she relation , and at length , that very day , she last friend , and now she be quite alone and desolate . she be very sad at heart , and heaviest of all she loss to she be that of she son ; and in she pain she blame God for it . she be still sit lose in thought , when all at once she hear the bell ring for early prayer . she be surprise that she have thus in she sorrow watch through the whole night , and light she lantern and go to church . it be already light up when she arrive , but not as it usually be with wax candle , but with a dim light . it be also crowd already with people , and all the seat be fill ; and when the old woman get to she usual place it also be not empty , but the whole bench be entirely full . and when she look at the people , they be none other than she dead relation who be sit there in they old-fashioned garment , but with pale face . they neither speak nor sing ; but a soft humming and whispering be hear all over the church . then a aunt of hers stand up , step forward , and say to the poor old woman , `` look there beside the altar , and thou wilt see thy son . '' the old woman look there , and see she two child , one hanging on the gallows , the other bind to the wheel . then say the aunt , `` Behold , so would it have be with they if they have live , and if the good God have not take they to himself when they be innocent child . '' the old woman go tremble home , and on she knee thank God for have deal with she more kindly than she have be able to understand , and on the third day she lay down and die . Legend 9 the Heavenly wedding a poor peasant-boy one day hear the priest say in church that whosoever desire to enter into the kingdom of heaven must always go straight onward . so he set out , and walk continually straight onward over hill and valley without ever turn aside . at length he way lead he into a great town , and into the midst of a church , where just at that time God 's service be be perform . now when he behold all the magnificence of this , he think he have reach heaven , sit down , and rejoice with he whole heart . when the service be over , and the clerk bid he go out , he reply , `` no , I will not go out again , I be glad to be in heaven at last . '' so the clerk go to the priest , and tell he that there be a child in the church who would not go out again , because he believe he be in heaven . the priest say , `` if he believe that , we will leave he inside . '' so he go to he , and ask if he have any inclination to work . `` yes , '' the little fellow reply , `` I be accustom to work , but I will not go out of heaven again . '' so he stay in the church , and when he see how the people come and knelt and pray to we Lady with the bless child jesus which be carve in wood , he think `` that be the good God , '' and say , `` Dear God , how thin you be ! the people must certainly let you starve ; but every day I will give you half my dinner . '' from this time forth , he every day take half he dinner to the image , and the image begin to enjoy the food . when a few week have go by , people remark that the image be grow larger and stout and strong , and wonder much . the priest also could not understand it , but stay in the church , and follow the little boy about , and then he see how he share he food with the Virgin Mary , and how she accept it . after some time the boy become ill , and for eight day could not leave he bed ; but as soon as he could get up again , the first thing he do be to take he food to we Lady . the priest follow he , and hear he say , `` Dear God , do not take it amiss that I have not bring you anything for such a long time , for I have be ill and could not get up . '' then the image answer he and say , `` I have see thy good-will , and that be enough for I . next Sunday thou shalt go with I to the wedding . '' the boy rejoice at this , and repeat it to the priest , who beg he to go and ask the image if he , too , might be permit to go . `` no , '' answer the image , `` thou alone . '' the priest wish to prepare he first , and give he the holy communion and the child be willing , and next Sunday , when the host come to he , he fall down and die , and be at the eternal wedding . Legend 10 the Hazel-Branch one afternoon the Christ-child have lay himself in he cradle-bed and have fall asleep . then he mother come to he , look at he full of gladness , and say , `` hast thou lay thyself down to sleep , my child ? sleep sweetly , and in the meantime I will go into the wood , and fetch thee a handful of strawberry , for I know that thou wilt be please with they when thou awakest . '' in the wood outside , she find a spot with the most beautiful strawberry ; but as she be stoop down to gather one , a adder spring up out of the grass . she be alarm , leave the strawberry where they be , and hasten away . the adder dart after she ; but we Lady , as you can readily understand , know what it be best to do . she hide herself behind a hazel-bush , and stand there until the adder have creep away again . then she gather the strawberry , and as she set out on she way home she say , `` as the hazel-bush have be my protection this time , it shall in future protect other also . '' therefore , from the most remote time , a green hazel-branch have be the safest protection against adder , snake , and everything else which creep on the earth .