96 the three little bird BrothersS Grimm about a thousand or more year ago , there be in this country nothing but small king , and one of they who live on the Keuterberg be very fond of hunting . once on a time when he be ride forth from he castle with he huntsman , three girl be watch they cow upon the mountain , and when they see the King with all he follower , the eldest girl point to he , and call to the two other girl , `` if I do not get that one , I will have none . '' then the second girl answer from the other side of the hill , and point to the one who be on the King 's right hand , `` Hilloa ! hilloa ! if I do not get he , I will have no one . '' these , however , be the two minister . the King hear all this , and when he have come back from the chase , he cause the three girl to be bring to he , and ask they what they have say yesterday on the mountain . this they would not tell he , so the King ask the eldest if she really would take he for she husband ? then she say , `` yes , '' and the two minister marry the two sister , for they be all three fair and beautiful of face , especially the Queen , who have hair like flax . but the two sister have no child , and once when the King be oblige to go from home he invite they to come to the Queen in order to cheer she , for she be about to bear a child . she have a little boy who bring a bright red star into the world with he . then the two sister say to each other that they would throw the beautiful boy into the water . when they have throw he in -lrb-B- I believe it be into the Weser -rrb-B- a little bird fly up into the air , which sing , `` to thy death art thou speed , until God 's word be say . in the white lily bloom , Brave boy , be thy tomb . '' when the two hear that , they be frighten to death , and run away in great haste . when the King come home they tell he that the Queen have be deliver of a dog . then the King say , `` what God do , be well do ! '' but a fisherman who dwell near the water fish the little boy out again while he be still alive , and as he wife have no child , they rear he . when a year have go by , the King again go away , and the Queen have another little boy , whom the false sister likewise take and throw into the water . then up fly a little bird again and sing , `` to thy death art thou speed , until God 's word be say . in the white lily bloom , Brave boy , be thy tomb . '' and when the King come back , they tell he that the Queen have once more give birth to a dog , and he again say , `` what God do , be well do . '' the fisherman , however , fish this one also out of the water , and rear he . then the King again journey forth , and the Queen have a little girl , whom also the false sister throw into the water . then again a little bird fly up on high and sing , `` to thy death art thou speed until God 's word be say . in the white lily bloom , Bonny girl , be thy tomb . '' and when the King come home they tell he that the Queen have be deliver of a cat . then the King grow angry , and order he wife to be cast into prison , and therein be she shut up for many long year . in the meantime the child have grow up . then eldest once go out with some other boy to fish , but the other boy would not have he with they , and say , `` go thy way , foundle . '' Hereupon he be much trouble , and ask the old fisherman if that be true ? the fisherman tell he that once when he be fish he have draw he out of the water . so the boy say he would go forth and seek he father . the fisherman , however , entreat he to stay , but he would not let himself be hinder , and at last the fisherman consent . then the boy go on he way and walk for many day , and at last he come to a great piece of water by the side of which stand a old woman fishing . `` good day , mother , '' say the boy . `` many thanks , '' say she . `` Thou wilt fish long enough before thou catchest anything . '' `` and thou wilt seek long enough before thou findest thy father . how wilt thou get over the water ? '' say the woman . `` God know . '' then the old woman take he up on she back and carry he through it , and he seek for a long time , but could not find he father . when a year have go by , the second boy set out to seek he brother . he come to the water , and all fare with he just as with he brother . and now there be no one at home but the daughter , and she mourn for she brother so much that at last she also beg the fisherman to let she set forth , for she wish to go in search of she brother . then she likewise come to the great piece of water , and she say to the old woman , `` good day , mother . '' `` many thanks , '' reply the old woman . `` May God help you with you fishing , '' say the maiden . when the old woman hear that , she become quite friendly , and carry she over the water , give she a wand , and say to she , `` go , my daughter , ever onward by this road , and when you come to a great black dog , you must pass it silently and boldly , without either laughing or look at it . then you will come to a great high castle , on the threshold of which you must let the wand fall , and go straight through the castle , and out again on the other side . there you will see a old fountain out of which a large tree have grow , whereon hang a bird in a cage which you must take down . take likewise a glass of water out of the fountain , and with these two thing go back by the same way . pick up the wand again from the threshold and take it with you , and when you again pass by the dog , strike he in the face with it , but be sure that you hit he , and then just come back here to I . '' the maiden find everything exactly as the old woman have say , and on she way back she find she two brother who have seek each other over half the world . they go together to the place where the black dog be lie on the road ; she strike it in the face , and it turn into a handsome prince who go with they to the river . there the old woman be still stand . she rejoice much to see they again , and carry they all over the water , and then she too go away , for now she be free . the other , however , go to the old fisherman , and all be glad that they have find each other again , but they hang the bird on the wall . but the second son could not settle at home , and take he cross-bow and go a-hunting . when he be tire he take he flute , and make music . the King be hunting too , and hear that and go thither , and when he meet the youth , he say , `` who have give thee leave to hunt here ? '' `` oh , no one . '' `` to whom dost thou belong , then ? '' `` I be the fisherman 's son . '' `` but he have no child . '' `` if thou wilt not believe , come with I . '' that the King do , and question the fisherman , who tell everything to he , and the little bird on the wall begin to sing , `` the mother sit alone there in the prison small , O King of royal blood , these be thy child all . the sister twain so false , they work the child woe , there in the water deep where the fisherman come and go . '' then they be all terrify , and the King take the bird , the fisherman and the three child back with he to the castle , and order the prison to be open and bring he wife out again . she have , however , grown quite ill and weak . then the daughter give she some of the water of the fountain to drink , and she become strong and healthy . but the two false sister be burnt , and the daughter marry the prince .