151 \* the Twelve Idle ServantsS BrothersS Grimm Twelve servant who have do nothing all the day would not exert themselves at night either , but lay themselves on the grass and boast of they idleness . the first say , `` what be you laziness to I , I have to concern myself about mine own ? the care of my body be my principal work , I eat not a little and drink still more . when I have have four meal , I fast a short time until I feel hunger again , and that suit I best . to rise betime be not for I ; when it be get near mid-day , I already seek out a resting-place for myself . if the master call , I do exactly as if I have not hear he , and if he call for the second time , I wait awhile before I get up , and go to he very slowly . in this way life be endurable . '' the second say , `` I have a horse to look after , but I leave the bit in he mouth , and if I do not want to do it , I give he no food , and I say he have have it already . I , however , lay myself in the oat-chest and sleep for four hour . after this I stretch out one foot and move it a couple of time over the horse 's body , and then he be comb and clean . who be go to make a great business of that ? nevertheless service be too toilsome for I . '' the third say , `` why plague oneself with work ? nothing come of it ! I lay myself in the sun , and fall asleep . it begin to rain a little , but why should I get up ? I let it rain on in God 's name . at last come a splashing shower , so heavy indeed , that it pull the hair out of my head and wash it away , and I get a hole in the skull ; I put a plaster on it , and then it be all right . I have already have several injury of that kind . '' the fourth say , `` if I be to undertake a piece of work , I first loiter about for a hour that I may save up my strength . after that I begin quite slowly , and ask if no one be there who could help I . then I let he do the chief of the work , and in reality only look on ; but that also be still too much for I . '' the fifth say , `` what do that matter ? just think , I be to take away the manure from the horse 's stable , and load the cart with it . I let it go on slowly , and if I have take anything on the fork , I only half-raise it up , and then I rest just a quarter of a hour until I quite throw it in . it be enough and to spare if I take out a cartful in the day . I have no fancy for kill myself with work . '' the sixth say , `` shame on ye ; I be afraid of no work , but I lie down for three week , and never once take my clothes off . what be the use of buckle you shoe on ? for aught I care they may fall off my foot , it be no matter . if I be go up some step , I drag one foot slowly after the other on to the first step , and then I count the rest of they that I may know where I must rest . '' the seventh say , `` that will not do with I ; my master look after my work , only he be not at home the whole day . but I neglect nothing , I run as fast as it be possible to do when one crawl . if I be to get on , four sturdy man must push I with all they might . I come where six man be lie sleep on a bed beside each other . I lay down by they and sleep too . there be no wakening I again , and when they want to have I home , they have to carry I . '' the eighth say , `` I see plainly that I be the only active fellow ; if a stone lie before I , I do not give myself the trouble to raise my leg and step over it . I lay myself down on the ground , and if I be wet and cover with mud and dirt , I stay lie until the sun have dry I again . at the very most , I only turn myself so that it can shine on I . '' the ninth say , `` that be the right way ! to-day the bread be before I , but I be too idle to take it , and nearly die of hunger ! moreover a jug stand by it , but it be so big and heavy that I do not like to lift it up , and preferred bearing thirst . just to turn myself round be too much for I , I remain lie like a log the whole day . '' the tenth say , `` laziness have bring misfortune on I , a broken leg and swollen calf . three of we be lie in the road , and I have my leg stretch out . some one come with a cart , and the wheel go over I . I might indeed have draw my leg back , but I do not hear the cart come , for the midge be hum about my ear , and creep in at my nose and out again at my mouth ; who can take the trouble to drive the vermin away ? '' the eleventh say , `` I give up my place yesterday . I have no fancy for carry the heavy book to my master any longer or fetch they away again . there be no end of it all day long . but to tell the truth , he give I my dismissal , and would not keep I any longer , for he clothes , which I have leave lie in the dust , be all moth-eaten , and I be very glad of it . '' the twelfth say , `` to-day I have to drive the cart into the country , and make myself a bed of straw on it , and have a good sleep . the rein slip out of my hand , and when I awake , the horse have nearly tear itself loose , the harness be go , the strap which fasten the horse to the shaft be go , and so be the collar , the bridle and bit . some one have come by , who have carry all off . besides this , the cart have get into a quagmire and stick fast . I leave it standing , and stretch myself on the straw again . at last the master come himself , and push the cart out , and if he have not come I should not be lie here but there , and sleep in full tranquillity . ''