5 the Wolf and the Seven Little Kids BrothersS Grimm by BrothersS Grimm there be once upon a time a old goat who have seven little kid , and love they with all the love of a mother for she child . one day she want to go into the forest and fetch some food . so she call all seven to she and say , `` dear child , I have to go into the forest , be on you guard against the wolf ; if he come in , he will devour you all -- skin , hair , and all . the wretch often disguise himself , but you will know he at once by he rough voice and he black foot . '' the kid say , `` dear mother , we will take good care of ourselves ; you may go away without any anxiety . '' then the old one bleat , and go on she way with a easy mind . it be not long before some one knock at the house-door and call , `` open the door , dear child ; you mother be here , and have bring something back with she for each of you . '' but the little kid know that it be the wolf , by the rough voice ; `` we will not open the door , '' cry they , `` thou art not we mother . she have a soft , pleasant voice , but thy voice be rough ; thou art the wolf ! '' then the wolf go away to a shopkeeper and buy himself a great lump of chalk , eat this and make he voice soft with it . the he come back , knock at the door of the house , and cry , `` open the door , dear child , you mother be here and have bring something back with she for each of you . '' but the wolf have lay he black paw against the window , and the child see they and cry , `` we will not open the door , we mother have not black foot like thee ; thou art the wolf . '' then the wolf run to a baker and say , `` I have hurt my foot , rub some dough over they for I . '' and when the baker have rub he foot over , he run to the miller and say , `` strew some white meal over my foot for I . '' the miller think to himself , `` the wolf want to deceive someone , '' and refuse ; but the wolf say , `` if thou wilt not do it , I will devour thee . '' then the miller be afraid , and make he paw white for he . truly man be like that . so now the wretch go for the third time to the house-door , knock at it and say , `` open the door for I , child , you dear little mother have come home , and have bring every one of you something back from the forest with she . '' the little kid cry , `` first show we thy paw that we may know if thou art we dear little mother . '' then he put he paw in through the window , and when the kid see that they be white , they believe that all he say be true , and open the door . but who should come in but the wolf ! they be terrify and want to hide themselves . one spring under the table , the second into the bed , the third into the stove , the fourth into the kitchen , the fifth into the cupboard , the sixth under the washing-bowl , and the seventh into the clock-case . but the wolf find they all , and use no great ceremony ; one after the other he swallow they down he throat . the youngest , who be in the clock-case , be the only one he do not find . when the wolf have satisfy he appetite he take himself off , lay himself down under a tree in the green meadow outside , and begin to sleep . soon afterwards the old goat come home again from the forest . ah ! what a sight she see there ! the house-door stand wide open . the table , chair , and bench be throw down , the washing-bowl lay break to piece , and the quilt and pillow be pull off the bed . she seek she child , but they be nowhere to be find . she call they one after another by name , but no one answer . at last , when she come to the youngest , a soft voice cry , `` dear mother , I be in the clock-case . '' she take the kid out , and it tell she that the wolf have come and have eat all the other . then you may imagine how she weep over she poor child . at length in she grief she go out , and the youngest kid run with she . when they come to the meadow , there lay the wolf by the tree and snore so loud that the branch shake . she look at he on every side and see that something be move and struggle in he gorged belly . `` ah , heaven , '' say she , `` be it possible that my poor child whom he have swallow down for he supper , can be still alive ? '' then the kid have to run home and fetch scissors , and a needle and thread , and the goat cut open the monster 's stomach , and hardly have she make one cut , than one little kid thrust its head out , and when she cut farther , all six spring out one after another , and be all still alive , and have suffer no injury whatever , for in he greediness the monster have swallow they down whole . what rejoice there be ! they embrace they dear mother , and jump like a sailor at he wedding . the mother , however , say , `` now go and look for some big stone , and we will fill the wicked beast 's stomach with they while he be still asleep . '' then the seven kid drag the stone thither with all speed , and put as many of they into he stomach as they could get in ; and the mother sew he up again in the greatest haste , so that he be not aware of anything and never once stir . when the wolf at length have have he sleep out , he get on he leg , and as the stone in he stomach make he very thirsty , he want to go to a well to drink . but when he begin to walk and move about , the stone in he stomach knock against each other and rattled . then cry he , `` what rumble and tumble against my poor bone ? I think ` t be six kid , but it be naught but big stone . '' and when he get to the well and stoop over the water and be just about to drink , the heavy stone make he fall in , and there be no help , but he have to drown miserably . when the seven kid see that , they come run to the spot and cry aloud , `` the wolf be dead ! the wolf be dead ! '' and dance for joy round about the well with they mother .