124 the Three BrothersS BrothersS Grimm there be once a man who have three son , and nothing else in the world but the house in which he live . now each of the son wish to have the house after he father 's death ; but the father love they all alike , and do not know what to do ; he do not wish to sell the house , because it have belong to he forefather , else he might have divide the money amongst they . at last a plan come into he head , and he say to he son , `` go into the world , and try each of you to learn a trade , and , when you all come back , he who make the best masterpiece shall have the house . '' the son be well content with this , and the eldest determine to be a blacksmith , the second a barber , and the third a fencing-master . they fix a time when they should all come home again , and then each go he way . it chance that they all find skilful master , who teach they they trade well . the blacksmith have to shoe the King 's horse , and he think to himself , `` the house be mine , without doubt . '' the barber only shave great people , and he too already look upon the house as he own . the fencing-master get many a blow , but he only bit he lip , and let nothing vex he ; `` for , '' say he to himself , `` if you be afraid of a blow , you 'll never win the house . '' when the appointed time have go by , the three brother come back home to they father ; but they do not know how to find the best opportunity for show they skill , so they sit down and consult together . as they be sit thus , all at once a hare come run across the field . `` ah , ha , just in time ! '' say the barber . so he take he basin and soap , and lather away until the hare come up ; then he soap and shave off the hare 's whisker whilst he be run at the top of he speed , and do not even cut he skin or injure a hair on he body . `` well do ! '' say the old man . `` you brother will have to exert themselves wonderfully , or the house will be yours . '' soon after , up come a nobleman in he coach , dash along at full speed . `` now you shall see what I can do , father , '' say the blacksmith ; so away he run after the coach , take all four shoe off the foot of one of the horse whilst he be gallop , and put he on four new shoe without stop he . `` you be a fine fellow , and as clever as you brother , '' say he father ; `` I do not know to which I ought to give the house . '' then the third son say , `` Father , let I have my turn , if you please ; '' and , as it be begin to rain , he draw he sword , and flourish it backwards and forwards above he head so fast that not a drop fall upon he . it rain still harder and harder , till at last it come down in torrent ; but he only flourish he sword faster and faster , and remain as dry as if he be sit in a house . when he father see this he be amaze , and say , `` this be the master-piece , the house be yours ! '' he brother be satisfy with this , as be agree beforehand ; and , as they love one another very much , they all three stay together in the house , follow they trade , and , as they have learn they so well and be so clever , they earn a great deal of money . thus they live together happily until they grow old ; and at last , when one of they fall sick and die , the two other grieve so sorely about it that they also fall ill , and soon after die . and because they have be so clever , and have love one another so much , they be all lay in the same grave .