the AVARICIOUS WIFE AND TRICKING GALLANT La Fontain who know the world will never feel surprise , when man be dupe by artful woman 's eye ; Though death he weapon freely will unfold ; Love 's prank , we find , be ever rule by gold . to vain coquette I doubtless here allude ; but spite of art with which they be oft endue ; I hope to show -lrb-B- we honor to maintain , -rrb-B- we can , among a hundred of the train , catch one at least , and play some cunning trick : -- for instance , take blithe Gulphar 's wily nick , who gain -lrb-B- old soldier-like -rrb-B- he ardent aim , and grati get a avaricious dame . look well at this , ye hero of the sword , Howe'er with wily freak you head be store , beyond a doubt , at court I now could find , a host of lover of the Gulphar kind . to Gasperin 's so often go we wight , the wife at length become he sole delight , whose youth and beauty be by all confess ; but , ` midst these charm , such av ` rice she possess , the warmest love be check -- a thing not rare , in modern time at least , among the FAIR . ` tis true , as I have already say , with such sigh naught avail , and promise not much ; without a purse , who wish should express , would vainly hope to gain a soft caress . the god of love no other charm employ , then card , and dress , and pleasure 's cheer joy ; from whose gay shop more cuckold we behold , than hero sally from Troy 's horse of old . BUT to we lady 's humor let 's adhere ; sigh pass for naught : they enter not she ear ; 'Twas speaking only would the charmer please , the reader , without doubt , my meaning see ; Gay Gulphar plainly speak , and name a sum a hundred pound , she listen : -- be o ` ercome . OUR wight the cash by Gasperin be lend ; and then the husband to the country go , without suspect that he love mate , design with horn to ornament he pate . the money artful Gulphar give the dame , while friend be round who could observe the same ; here , say the spark , a hundred pound receive , ` TisS for you spouse : -- the cash with you I leave . the lady fancy what the swain have say , be policy , and to concealment lead . next morn we belle regale the arch gallant , fulfil he promise : -- and he eager want . Day after day he follow up the game ; for cash he take , and int ` rest on the same ; good payer get , we always may conclude , Full measure serve , whatever be pursue . when Gasperin return , we crafty wight , before the wife address she spouse at sight ; Said he the cash I have to you lady pay , not have -lrb-B- as I fear -rrb-B- require its aid ; to save mistake , pray cross it in you book ; the lady , thunderstruck , with terror shake ; allow the payment ; 'twa a case too clear ; in truth for character she ` gan to fear . but most howe'er she grudge the surplus joy , bestow on such a vile , deceitful boy . the loss be doubtless great in ev ` ry view around the town the wicked Gulphar fly ; in all the street , at every house to tell , how nicely he have trick have the greedy belle . to blame he useless ` twere you must allow ; the french such frolick readily avow .