the OGRE of RASHOMON . Japanese Writer Long , long ago in Kyoto , the people of the city be terrify by account of a dreadful ogre , who , it be say , haunt the gate of Rashomon at twilight and seize whoever pass by . the miss victim be never see again , so it be whisper that the ogre be a horrible cannibal , who not only kill the unhappy victim but eat they also . now everybody in the town and neighborhood be in great fear , and no one durst venture out after sunset near the gate of Rashomon . now at this time there live in Kyoto a general name Raiko , who have make himself famous for he brave deed . some time before this he make the country ring with he name , for he have attack Oeyama , where a band of ogre live with they chief , who instead of wine drink the blood of human being . he have route they all and cut off the head of the chief monster . this brave warrior be always follow by a band of faithful knight . in this band there be five knight of great valor . one evening as the five knight sit at a feast quaff SAKE in they rice bowl and eat all kind of fish , raw , and stew , and broil , and toast each other 's health and exploit , the first knight , Hojo , say to the other : `` have you all hear the rumor that every evening after sunset there come a ogre to the gate of Rashomon , and that he seize all who pass by ? '' the second knight , Watanabe , answer he , say : `` do not talk such nonsense ! all the ogre be kill by we chief Raiko at Oeyama ! it can not be true , because even if any ogre do escape from that great killing they would not dare to show themselves in this city , for they know that we brave master would at once attack they if he know that any of they be still alive ! '' `` then do you disbelieve what I say , and think that I be tell you a falsehood ? '' `` no , I do not think that you be tell a lie , '' say Watanabe ; `` but you have hear some old woman 's story which be not worth believe . '' `` then the best plan be to prove what I say , by go there yourself and find out yourself whether it be true or not , '' say Hojo . Watanabe , the second knight , could not bear the thought that he companion should believe he be afraid , so he answer quickly : `` of course , I will go at once and find out for myself ! '' so Watanabe at once get ready to go -- he buckle on he long sword and put on a coat of armor , and tie on he large helmet . when he be ready to start he say to the other : `` give I something so that I can prove I have be there ! '' then one of the man get a roll of write paper and he box of indian ink and brush , and the four comrade write they name on a piece of paper . `` I will take this , '' say Watanabe , `` and put it on the gate of Rashomon , so to-morrow morning will you all go and look at it ? I may be able to catch a ogre or two by then ! '' and he mount he horse and ride off gallantly . it be a very dark night , and there be neither moon nor star to light Watanabe on he way . to make the darkness worse a storm come on , the rain fall heavily and the wind howl like wolf in the mountain . any ordinary man would have tremble at the thought of go out of door , but Watanabe be a brave warrior and dauntless , and he honor and word be at stake , so he speed on into the night , while he companion listen to the sound of he horse 's hoof die away in the distance , then shut the slide shutter close and gather round the charcoal fire and wonder what would happen -- and whether they comrade would encounter one of those horrible Oni . at last Watanabe reach the gate of Rashomon , but peer as he might through the darkness he could see no sign of a ogre . `` it be just as I think , '' say Watanabe to himself ; `` there be certainly no ogre here ; it be only a old woman 's story . I will stick this paper on the gate so that the other can see I have be here when they come to-morrow , and then I will take my way home and laugh at they all . '' he fasten the piece of paper , sign by all he four companion , on the gate , and then turn he horse 's head towards home . as he do so he become aware that some one be behind he , and at the same time a voice call out to he to wait . then he helmet be seize from the back . `` who be you ? '' say Watanabe fearlessly . he then put out he hand and grope around to find out who or what it be that hold he by the helmet . as he do so he touch something that feel like a arm -- it be cover with hair and as big round as the trunk of a tree ! Watanabe know at once that this be the arm of a ogre , so he draw he sword and cut at it fiercely . there be a loud yell of pain , and then the ogre dash in front of the warrior . Watanabe 's eye grow large with wonder , for he see that the ogre be taller than the great gate , he eye be flash like mirror in the sunlight , and he huge mouth be wide open , and as the monster breathe , flame of fire shot out of he mouth . the ogre think to terrify he foe , but Watanabe never flinch . he attack the ogre with all he strength , and thus they fight face to face for a long time . at last the ogre , find that he could neither frighten nor beat Watanabe and that he might himself be beat , take to flight . but Watanabe , determine not to let the monster escape , put spur to he horse and give chase . but though the knight ride very fast the ogre run faster , and to he disappointment he find himself unable to overtake the monster , who be gradually lose to sight . Watanabe return to the gate where the fierce fight have take place , and get down from he horse . as he do so he stumble upon something lie on the ground . stoop to pick it up he find that it be one of the ogre 's huge arm which he must have slash off in the fight . he joy be great at have secure such a prize , for this be the best of all proof of he adventure with the ogre . so he take it up carefully and carry it home as a trophy of he victory . when he get back , he show the arm to he comrade , who one and all call he the hero of they band and give he a great feast . he wonderful deed be soon noise abroad in Kyoto , and people from far and near come to see the ogre 's arm . Watanabe now begin to grow uneasy as to how he should keep the arm in safety , for he know that the ogre to whom it belong be still alive . he feel sure that one day or other , as soon as the ogre get over he scare , he would come to try to get he arm back again . Watanabe therefore have a box make of the strongest wood and band with iron . in this he place the arm , and then he seal down the heavy lid , refuse to open it for anyone . he keep the box in he own room and take charge of it himself , never allow it out of he sight . now one night he hear some one knock at the porch , ask for admittance . when the servant go to the door to see who it be , there be only a old woman , very respectable in appearance . on be ask who she be and what be she business , the old woman reply with a smile that she have be nurse to the master of the house when he be a little baby . if the lord of the house be at home she beg to be allow to see he . the servant leave the old woman at the door and go to tell he master that he old nurse have come to see he . Watanabe think it strange that she should come at that time of night , but at the thought of he old nurse , who have be like a foster-mother to he and whom he have not see for a long time , a very tender feeling spring up for she in he heart . he order the servant to show she in . the old woman be usher into the room , and after the customary bow and greeting be over , she say : `` Master , the report of you brave fight with the ogre at the gate of Rashomon be so widely know that even you poor old nurse have hear of it . be it really true , what every one say , that you cut off one of the ogre 's arm ? if you do , you deed be highly to be praise ! '' `` I be very disappointed , '' say Watanabe , `` that I be not able take the monster captive , which be what I wish to do , instead of only cut off a arm ! '' `` I be very proud to think , '' answer the old woman , `` that my master be so brave as to dare to cut off a ogre 's arm . there be nothing that can be compare to you courage . before I die it be the great wish of my life to see this arm , '' she add pleadingly . `` no , '' say Watanabe , `` I be sorry , but I can not grant you request . '' `` but why ? '' ask the old woman . `` because , '' reply Watanabe , `` ogre be very revengeful creature , and if I open the box there be no tell but that the ogre may suddenly appear and carry off he arm . I have have a box make on purpose with a very strong lid , and in this box I keep the ogre 's arm secure ; and I never show it to any one , whatever happen . '' `` you precaution be very reasonable , '' say the old woman . `` but I be you old nurse , so surely you will not refuse to show me the arm . I have only just hear of you brave act , and not be able to wait till the morning I come at once to ask you to show it to I . '' Watanabe be very trouble at the old woman 's plead , but he still persist in refusing . then the old woman say : `` do you suspect I of be a spy send by the ogre ? '' `` no , of course I do not suspect you of be the ogre 's spy , for you be my old nurse , '' answer Watanabe . `` then you can not surely refuse to show I the arm any longer . '' entreat the old woman ; `` for it be the great wish of my heart to see for once in my life the arm of a ogre ! '' Watanabe could not hold out in he refusal any longer , so he give in at last , say : `` then I will show you the ogre 's arm , since you so earnestly wish to see it . come , follow I ! '' and he lead the way to he own room , the old woman follow . when they be both in the room Watanabe shut the door carefully , and then go towards a big box which stand in a corner of the room , he take off the heavy lid . he then call to the old woman to come near and look in , for he never take the arm out of the box . `` what be it like ? let I have a good look at it , '' say the old nurse , with a joyful face . she come nearer and nearer , as if she be afraid , till she stand right against the box . suddenly she plunge she hand into the box and seize the arm , cry with a fearful voice which make the room shake : `` oh , joy ! I have get my arm back again ! '' and from a old woman she be suddenly transform into the tower figure of the frightful ogre ! Watanabe spring back and be unable to move for a moment , so great be he astonishment ; but recognize the ogre who have attack he at the gate of Rashomon , he determine with he usual courage to put a end to he this time . he seize he sword , draw it out of its sheath in a flash , and try to cut the ogre down . so quick be Watanabe that the creature have a narrow escape . but the ogre spring up to the ceiling , and burst through the roof , disappear in the mist and cloud . in this way the ogre escape with he arm . the knight gnash he tooth with disappointment , but that be all he could do . he wait in patience for another opportunity to dispatch the ogre . but the latter be afraid of Watanabe 's great strength and daring , and never trouble Kyoto again . so once more the people of the city be able to go out without fear even at night time , and the brave deed of Watanabe have never be forget !