88 the singing , spring Lark BrothersS Grimm there be once on a time a man who be about to set out on a long journey , and on parting he ask he three daughter what he should bring back with he for they . Whereupon the eldest wish for pearl , the second wish for diamond , but the third say , `` dear father , I should like a singing , soar lark . '' the father say , `` yes , if I can get it , you shall have it , '' kiss all three , and set out . now when the time have come for he to be on he way home again , he have bring pearl and diamond for the two eldest , but he have seek everywhere in vain for a singing , soar lark for the youngest , and he be very unhappy about it , for she be he favorite child . then he road lay through a forest , and in the midst of it be a splendid castle , and near the castle stand a tree , but quite on the top of the tree , he see a singing , soar lark . `` Aha , you come just at the right moment ! '' he say , quite delighted , and call to he servant to climb up and catch the little creature . but as he approach the tree , a lion leap from beneath it , shake himself , and roar till the leaf on the tree tremble . `` he who try to steal my singing , soar lark , '' he cry , `` will I devour . '' then the man say , `` I do not know that the bird belong to thee . I will make amends for the wrong I have do and ransom myself with a large sum of money , only spare my life . '' the lion say , `` nothing can save thee , unless thou wilt promise to give I for mine own what first meet thee on thy return home ; and if thou wilt do that , I will grant thee thy life , and thou shalt have the bird for thy daughter , into the bargain . '' but the man hesitate and say , `` that might be my youngest daughter , she love I best , and always run to meet I on my return home . '' the servant , however , be terrify and say , `` why should you daughter be the very one to meet you , it might as easily be a cat , or dog ? '' then the man allow himself to be over-persuaded , take the singing , soar lark , and promise to give the lion whatsoever should first meet he on he return home . when he reach home and enter he house , the first who meet he be no other than he youngest and dearest daughter , who come run up , kiss and embrace he , and when she see that he have bring with he a singing , soar lark , she be beside herself with joy . the father , however , could not rejoice , but begin to weep , and say , `` my dearest child , I have buy the little bird dear . in return for it , I have be oblige to promise thee to a savage lion , and when he have thee he will tear thee in piece and devour thee , '' and he tell she all , just as it have happen , and beg she not to go there , come what might . but she console he and say , `` dearest father , indeed you promise must be fulfil . I will go thither and soften the lion , so that I may return to thee safely . '' next morning she have the road point out to she , take leave , and go fearlessly out into the forest . the lion , however , be a enchant prince and be by day a lion , and all he people be lion with he , but in the night they resume they natural human shape . on she arrival she be kindly receive and lead into the castle . when night come , the lion turn into a handsome man , and they wedding be celebrate with great magnificence . they live happily together , remain awake at night , and sleep in the daytime . one day he come and say , `` to-morrow there be a feast in thy father 's house , because you eldest sister be to be marry , and if thou art incline to go there , my lion shall conduct thee . '' she say , `` yes , I should very much like to see my father again , '' and go thither , accompany by the lion . there be great joy when she arrive , for they have all believe that she have be tear in piece by the lion , and have long cease to live . but she tell they what a handsome husband she have , and how well off she be , remain with they while the wedding-feast last , and then go back again to the forest . when the second daughter be about to be marry , and she be again invite to the wedding , she say to the lion , `` this time I will not be alone , thou must come with I . '' the lion , however , say that it be too dangerous for he , for if when there a ray from a burning candle fall on he , he would be change into a dive , and for seven year long would have to fly about with the dove . she say , `` ah , but do come with I , I will take great care of thee , and guard thee from all light . '' so they go away together , and take with they they little child as well . she have a chamber build there , so strong and thick that no ray could pierce through it ; in this he be to shut himself up when the candle be light for the wedding-feast . but the door be make of green wood which warped and leave a little crack which no one notice . the wedding be celebrate with magnificence , but when the procession with all its candle and torch come back from church , and pass by this apartment , a ray about the breadth of a hair fall on the King 's son , and when this ray touch he , he be transform in a instant , and when she come in and look for he , she do not see he , but a white dive be sit there . the dive say to she , `` for seven year must I fly about the world , but at every seventh step that you take I will let fall a drop of red blood and a white feather , and these will show thee the way , and if thou followest the trace thou canst release I . '' Thereupon the dive fly out at the door , and she follow he , and at every seventh step a red drop of blood and a little white feather fall down and show she the way . so she go continually further and further in the wide world , never look about she or rest , and the seven year be almost past ; then she rejoice and think that they would soon be deliver , and yet they be so far from it ! once when they be thus move onward , no little feather and no drop of red blood fall , and when she raise she eye the dive have disappear . and as she think to herself , `` in this no man can help thee , '' she climb up to the sun , and say to he , `` Thou shinest into every crevice , and over every peak , hast thou not see a white dive fly ? '' `` no , '' say the sun , `` I have see none , but I present thee with a casket , open it when thou art in sorest need . '' then she thank the sun , and go on until evening come and the moon appear ; she then ask she , `` Thou shinest the whole night through , and on every field and forest , hast thou not see a white dive fly ? '' `` no , '' say the moon , `` I have see no dive , but here I give thee a egg , break it when thou art in great need . '' she thank the moon , and go on until the night wind come up and blow on she , then she say to it , `` Thou blowest over every tree and under every leaf , hast thou not see a white dive fly ? '' `` no , '' say the night wind , `` I have see none , but I will ask the three other wind , perhaps they have see it . '' the east wind and the west wind come , and have see nothing , but the south wind say , `` I have see the white dive , it have fly to the Red Sea , where it have become a lion again , for the seven year be over , and the lion be there fight with a dragon ; the dragon , however , be a enchanted princess . '' the night wind then say to she , `` I will advise thee ; go to the Red Sea , on the right bank be some tall reed , count they , break off the eleventh , and strike the dragon with it , then the lion will be able to subdue it , and both then will regain they human form . after that , look round and thou wilt see the griffin which be by the Red Sea ; swing thyself , with thy beloved , on to he back , and the bird will carry you over the sea to you own home . here be a nut for thee , when thou be above the center of the sea , let the nut fall , it will immediately shoot up , and a tall nut-tree will grow out of the water on which the griffin may rest ; for if he can not rest , he will not be strong enough to carry you across , and if thou forgettest to throw down the nut , he will let you fall into the sea . '' then she go thither , and find everything as the night wind have say . she count the reed by the sea , and cut off the eleventh , strike the dragon therewith , whereupon the lion overcame it , and immediately both of they regain they human shape . but when the princess , who have before be the dragon , be deliver from enchantment , she take the youth by the arm , seat herself on the griffin , and carry he off with she . there stand the poor maiden who have wander so far and be again forsake . she sit down and cry , but at last she take courage and say , `` still I will go as far as the wind blow and as long as the cock crow , until I find he , '' and she go forth by long , long road , until at last she come to the castle where both of they be live together ; there she hear that soon a feast be to be hold , in which they would celebrate they wedding , but she say , `` God still help I , '' and open the casket that the sun have give she . a dress lay therein as brilliant as the sun itself . so she take it out and put it on , and go up into the castle , and everyone , even the bride herself , look at she with astonishment . the dress please the bride so well that she think it might do for she wedding-dress , and ask if it be for sale ? `` not for money or land , '' answer she , `` but for flesh and blood . '' the bride ask she what she mean by that , so she say , `` let I sleep a night in the chamber where the bridegroom sleep . '' the bride would not , yet want very much to have the dress ; at last she consent , but the page be to give the prince a sleeping-draught . when it be night , therefore , and the youth be already asleep , she be lead into the chamber ; she seat herself on the bed and say , `` I have follow after thee for seven year . I have be to the sun and the moon , and the four wind , and have enquire for thee , and have help thee against the dragon ; wilt thou , then quite forget I ? '' but the prince sleep so soundly that it only seem to he as if the wind be whistle outside in the fir-trees . when therefore day break , she be lead out again , and have to give up the golden dress . and as that even have be of no avail , she be sad , go out into a meadow , sit down there , and weep . while she be sit there , she think of the egg which the moon have give she ; she open it , and there come out a cluck hen with twelve chicken all of gold , and they run about chirp , and creep again under the old hen 's wing ; nothing more beautiful be ever see in the world ! then she arise , and drive they through the meadow before she , until the bride look out of the window . the little chicken please she so much that she immediately come down and ask if they be for sale . `` not for money or land , but for flesh and blood ; let I sleep another night in the chamber where the bridegroom sleep . '' the bride say , `` yes , '' intend to cheat she as on the former evening . but when the prince go to bed he ask the page what the murmuring and rustling in the night have be ? on this the page tell all ; that he have be force to give he a sleeping-draught , because a poor girl have sleep secretly in the chamber , and that he be to give he another that night . the prince say , `` Pour out the draught by the bed-side . '' at night , she be again lead in , and when she begin to relate how ill all have fare with she , he immediately recognize he beloved wife by she voice , spring up and cry , `` now I really be release ! I have be as it be in a dream , for the strange princess have bewitch I so that I have be compel to forget thee , but God have deliver I from the spell at the right time . '' then they both leave the castle secretly in the night , for they fear the father of the princess , who be a sorcerer , and they seat themselves on the griffin which bear they across the Red Sea , and when they be in the midst of it , she let fall the nut . immediately a tall nut-tree grow up , whereon the bird rest , and then carry they home , where they find they child , who have grow tall and beautiful , and they live thenceforth happily until they death .