the stone of the wise MEN . H. C. Andersen Far away in the land of India , far away towards the East , at the end of the world , stand the tree of the Sun , a noble tree , such as we have never see , and shall probably never see . the crown stretch out several mile around : it be really a entire wood ; each of its smallest branch form , in its turn , a whole tree . PalmsS , beech tree , pine , plane tree , and various other kind grow here , which be find scatter in all other part of the world : they shoot out like small branch from the great bough , and these large bough with they winding and knot form , as it be , valley and hill , clothe with velvety green , and cover with flower . everything be like a wide , bloom meadow , or like the most charming garden . here the bird from all quarter of the world assemble together -- bird from the primeval forest of America , the rise garden of Damascus , from the desert of Africa , in which the elephant and the lion boast of be the only ruler . the Polar bird come fly hither , and of course the stork and the swallow be not absent ; but the bird be not the only living being : the stag , the squirrel , the antelope , and a hundred other beautiful and light-footed animal be here at home . the crown of the tree be a widespread fragrant garden , and in the midst of it , where the great bough raise themselves into a green hill , there stand a castle of crystal , with a view towards every quarter of heaven . each tower be rear in the form of a lily . through the stem one could ascend , for within it be a winding-stair ; one could step out upon the leaf as upon balcony ; and up in the calyx of the flower itself be the most beautiful , sparkling round hall , above which no other roof rise but the blue firmament with sun and star . just as much splendor , though in another way , appear below , in the wide hall of the castle . here , on the wall , the whole world around be reflect . one saw everything that be do , so that there be no necessity of read any papers , and indeed papers be not obtainable there . everything be to be see in live picture , if one only wish to see it ; for too much be still too much even for the wisest man ; and this man dwelt here . he name be very difficult -- you will not be able to pronounce it ; therefore it may remain unmentioned . he know everything that a man on earth can know , or can get to know ; every invention which have already be or which be yet to be make be know to he ; but nothing more , for everything in the world have its limit . the wise King Solomon be only half as wise as he , and yet he be very wise , and govern the power of nature , and hold sway over potent spirit : yes , Death itself be oblige to give he every morning a list of those who be to die during the day . but King Solomon himself be oblige to die too ; and this think it be which often in the deepest manner employ the inquirer , the mighty lord in the castle on the tree of the Sun . he also , however high he might tower above man in wisdom , must die one day . he know that , and he child also must fade away like the leaf of the forest , and become dust . he see the human race fade away like the leaf on the tree ; see new man come to fill they place ; but the leaf that fall off never sprout forth again -- they fall to dust , or be transform into other part of plant . `` what happen to man ? '' the wise man ask himself , `` when the angel of death touch he ? what may death be ? the body be dissolve -- and the soul . Yes , what be the soul ? whither doth it go ? to eternal life , say the comforting voice of religion ; but what be the transition ? where do one live , and how ? Above , in heaven , say the pious man , thither we go . thither ? '' repeat the wise man , and fix he eye upon the moon and the star ; `` up yonder ? '' but he see , from the earthly ball , that above and below be alike change they position , accord as one stand here or there on the rolling globe ; and even if he mount as high as the loftiest mountain of earth rear they head , to the air which we below call clear and transparent -- the pure heaven -- a black darkness spread abroad like a cloth , and the sun have a coppery glow , and send forth no ray , and we earth lay wrap in a orange-coloured mist . how narrow be the limit of the corporeal eye , and how little the eye of the soul could see ! -- how little do even the wisest know of that which be the most important to we all ! in the most secret chamber of the castle lay the greatest treasure of the earth : the book of Truth . Leaf for leaf , the wise man read it through : every man may read in this book , but only by fragment . to many a eye the character seem to tremble , so that the word can not be put together ; on certain page the writing often seem so pale , so blur , that only a blank leaf appear . the wiser a man become , the more he will read ; and the wisest read most . he know how to unite the sunlight and the moonlight with the light of reason and of hidden power ; and through this stronger light many thing come clearly before he from the page . but in the division of the book whose title be `` Life after Death '' not even one point be to be distinctly see . that pained he . should he not be able here upon earth to obtain a light by which everything should become clear to he that stand write in the book of Truth ? -lrb-B- illustration : the book of TRUTH . aaaaa -rrb-B- aaa like the wise King Solomon , he understand the language of the animal , and could interpret they talk and they song . but that make he none the wiser . he find out the force of plant and metal -- the force to be use for the cure of disease , for delay death -- but none that could destroy death . in all create thing that be within he reach he seek the light that should shine upon the certainty of a eternal life ; but he find it not . the book of Truth lay before he with leaf that appear blank . Christianity show itself to he in the Bible with word of promise of a eternal life ; but he want to read it in _ he _ book ; but here he see nothing write on the subject . he have five child -- four son , educate as well as the child of the wisest father could be , and a daughter , fair , mild , and clever , but blind ; yet this appear no deprivation to she -- she father and brother be outward eye to she , and the vividness of she feeling see for she . never have the son go farther from the castle than the branch of the tree extend , nor have the sister stray from home . they be happy child in the land of childhood -- in the beautiful fragrant tree of the Sun . like all child , they be very glad when any history be relate to they ; and the father tell they many thing that other child would not have understand ; but these be just as clever as most grown-up people be among we . he explain to they what they see in the picture of life on the castle wall -- the doings of man and the march of event in all the land of the earth ; and often the son express the wish that they could be present at all the great deed and take part in they ; and they father then tell they that out in the world it be difficult and toilsome -- that the world be not quite what it appear to they as they look forth upon it from they beauteous home . he speak to they of the true , the beautiful , and the good , and tell they that these three hold together in the world , and that under the pressure they have to endure they become harden into a precious stone , clearer than the water of the diamond -- a jewel whose splendor have value with God , whose brightness outshone everything , and which be the so-called `` Stone of the Wise . '' he tell they how man could attain by investigation to the knowledge of the existence of God , and that through man themselves one could attain to the certainty that such a jewel as the `` Stone of the Wise '' exist . this narration would have exceed the perception of other child , but these child understand it , and at length other child , too , will learn to comprehend its meaning . they question they father concern the true , the beautiful , and the good ; and he explain it to they , tell they many thing , and tell they also that God , when he make man out of the dust of the earth , give five kiss to he work -- fiery kiss , heart kiss -- which we now call the five sens . through these the true , the beautiful , and the good be see , perceive , and understand ; through these it be value , protect , and further . five sens have be give corporeally and mentally , inwardly and outwardly , to body and soul . the child reflect deeply upon these thing ; they meditate upon they by day and by night . then the eldest of the brother dream a splendid dream . strangely enough , the second brother have the same dream , and the third , and the fourth brother likewise ; all of they dream exactly the same thing -- namely , that each go out into the world and find the `` Stone of the Wise , '' which gleam like a beam light on he forehead when , in the morning dawn , he ride back on he swift horse over the velvety green meadow of he home into the castle of he father ; and the jewel throw such a heavenly light and radiance upon the leaf of the book , that everything be illuminate that stand write concern the life beyond the grave . but the sister dream nothing about go out into the wide world . it never enter she mind . she world be she father 's house . `` I shall ride forth into the wide world , '' say the eldest brother . `` I must try what life be like there , and go to and fro among man . I will practice only the good and the true ; with these I will protect the beautiful . much shall change for the better when I be there . '' now he thought be bold and great , as we thought generally be at home , before we have go forth into the world and have encounter wind and rain , and thorn and thistle . in he and in all he brother the five sens be highly develop , inwardly and outwardly ; but each of they have _ one _ sense which in keenness and development surpass the other four . in the case of the eldest this pre-eminent sense be Sight . this be to do he especial service . he say he have eye for all time , eye for all nation , eye that could look into the depths of the earth , where the treasure lie hidden , and deep into the heart of man , as though nothing but a pane of glass be place before they : he could read more than we can see on the cheek that blush or grow pale , in the eye that droop or smile . stag and antelope escort he to the boundary of he home towards the west , and there the wild swan receive he and fly north-west . he follow they . and now he have go far out into the world -- far from the land of he father , that extend eastward to the end of the earth . but how he open he eye in astonishment ! many thing be here to be see ; and many thing appear very different when a man behold they with he own eye , or when he merely see they in a picture , as the son have do in he father 's house , however faithful the picture way be . at the outset he nearly lose he eye in astonishment at all the rubbish and all the masquerade stuff put forward to represent the beautiful ; but he do not lose they , and soon find full employment for they . he wish to go thoroughly and honestly to work in the understanding of the beautiful , the true , and the good . but how be these represent in the world ? he see that often the garland that belong to the beautiful be give to the hideous ; that the good be often pass by without notice , while mediocrity be applaud when it should have be hiss off . people look to the dress , and not to the wearer ; ask for a name , and not for desert ; and go more by reputation than by service . it be the same thing everywhere . `` I see I must attack these thing vigorously , '' he say ; and attack they with vigor accordingly . but while he be look for the truth , come the Evil one , the father of lie . gladly would the fiend have pluck out the eye of this seer ; but that would have be too direct ; the devil work in a more cunning way . he let he see and seek the true and the good ; but while the young man be contemplate they , the evil spirit blow one mote after another into each of he eye ; and such a proceeding would be hurtful even to the best sight . then the fiend blow upon the mote , so that they become beam ; and the eye be destroy , and the seer stand like a blind man in the wide world , and have no faith in it : he lose he good opinion of it and himself ; and when a man give up the world and himself , all be over with he . `` over ! '' say the wild swan , who fly across the sea towards the east . `` over ! '' twitter the swallow , who likewise fly eastward , towards the tree of the Sun . that be no good news that they carry to the young man 's home . `` I fancy the _ seer _ must have fare badly , '' say the second brother ; `` but the _ Hearer _ may have better fortune . '' for this one possess the sense of hearing in a eminent degree : he could hear the grass grow , so quick be he to hear . he take a hearty leave of all at home , and ride away , provide with good ability and good intention . the swallow escort he , and he follow the swan ; and he stand far from he home in the wide world . but he experience the fact that one may have too much of a good thing . he hearing be _ too _ fine . he not only hear the grass grow , but could hear every man 's heart beat , in sorrow and in joy . the whole world be to he like a great clockmaker 's workshop , wherein all the clock be go `` tick , tick ! '' and all the turret clock striking `` ding dong ! '' it be unbearable . for a long time he ear hold out , but at last all the noise and scream become too much , for one man . there come blackguard boy of sixty year old -- for year alone do not make man -- and raise a tumult at which the hearer might certainly have laugh , but for the applause which follow , and which echo through every house and street , and be audible even in the country high road . Falsehood thrust itself forward , and play the master ; the bell on the fool 's cap jangle , and declare they be church bell ; and the noise become too bad for the _ Hearer _ , and he thrust he finger into he ear ; but still he could hear false singing and bad sound , gossip and idle word , scandal and slander , groan and moan without and within . Heaven help we ! he thrust he finger deeper and deeper into he ear , but at last the drum burst . now he could hear nothing at all of the good , the true , and the beautiful , for he hearing be to have be the bridge by which he cross . he become silent and suspicious , trust no one at last , not even himself , and , no longer hope to find and bring home the costly jewel , he give it up , and give himself up ; and that be the worst of all . the bird who wing they flight towards the east bring tiding of this , till the news reach the castle in the tree of the Sun . '' _ I _ will try now ! '' say the third brother . `` I have a sharp _ nose _ ! '' now that be not say in very good taste ; but it be he way , and one must take he as he be . he have a happy temper , and be a poet , a real poet : he could sing many thing that he could not say , and many thing strike he far earlier than they occur to other . `` I can smell fire ! '' he say ; and he attribute to the sense of smell , which he possess in a high degree , a great power in the region of the beautiful . `` every fragrant spot in the realm of the beautiful have its frequenter , '' he say . `` one man feel at home in the atmosphere of the tavern , among the flare tallow candle , where the smell of spirit mingle with the fume of bad tobacco . another prefer sit among the overpower scent of jessamine , or scent himself with strong clove oil . this man seek out the fresh sea breeze , while that one climb to the highest mountain top and look down upon the busy little life beneath . '' thus he speak . it seem to he as if he have already be out in the world , as if he have already associate with man and know they . but this experience arise from within himself : it be the poet within he , the gift of Heaven , and bestow on he in he cradle . he bid farewell to he paternal roof in the tree of the Sun , and depart on foot through the pleasant scenery of home . arrive at its confines , he mount on the back of a ostrich , which run faster than a horse ; and afterwards , when he fall in with the wild swan , he swing himself on the strongest of they , for he love change ; and away he fly over the sea to distant land with great forest , deep lake , mighty mountain , and proud city ; and wherever he come it seem as if sunshine travel with he across the field , for every flower , every bush , every tree exhale a new fragrance , in the consciousness that a friend and protector be in the neighborhood , who understand they and know they value . the cripple rise bush rear up its twig , unfold its leaf , and bear the most beautiful rose ; every one could see it , and even the black damp wood-snail notice its beauty . `` I will give my seal to the flower , '' say the Snail ; `` I have spit at it , and I can do no more for it . '' `` thus it always fare with the beautiful in this world ! '' say the poet ; and he sing a song concern it , sing it in he own way ; but nobody listen . then he give the drummer twopence and a peacock 's feather , and set the song for the drum , and have it drum in all the street of the town ; and the people hear it , and say , `` that be a well-constructed song . '' then the poet sing several song of the beautiful , the true , and the good . he song be listen to in the tavern , where the tallow candle smoke , in the fresh meadow , in the forest , and on the high sea . it appear as if this brother be to have better fortune than the two other . but the evil spirit be angry at this , and accordingly he set to work with incense powder and incense smoke , which he can prepare so artfully as to confuse a angel , and how much more therefore a poor poet ! the Evil one know how to take that kind of people ! he surround the poet so completely with incense , that the man lose he head , and forget he mission and he home , and at last himself -- and end in smoke . but when the little bird hear of this they mourn , and for three day they sing not one song . the black wood-snail become blacker still , not for grief , but for envy . `` they should have strew incense for I , '' she say , `` for it be I who give he he idea of the most famous of he song , the drum song of ` the way of the World ; ' it be I who spit at the rose ! I can bring witness to the fact . '' but no tiding of all this penetrate to the poet 's home in India , for all the bird be silent for three day ; and when the time of mourn be over , they grief have be so deep that they have forget for whom they weep . that be the usual way ! -lrb-B- illustration : the departure of the third brother . aaaaa -rrb-B- aaa `` now I shall have to go out into the world , to disappear like the rest , '' say the fourth brother . he have just as good a wit as the third , but he be no poet , though he could be witty . those two have fill the castle with cheerfulness , and now the last cheerfulness be go away . sight and hearing have always be look upon as the two chief sens of man , and as the two that it be most desirable to sharpen ; the other sens be look upon as of less consequence . but that be not the opinion of this son , as he have especially cultivate he _ taste _ in every respect , and taste be very powerful . it hold sway over what go into the mouth , and also over what penetrate into the mind ; and consequently this brother taste everything that be store up in bottle and pot , say that this be the rough work of he office . every man be to he a vessel in which something be seething , every country a enormous kitchen , a kitchen of the mind . `` that be no delicacy , '' he say , and he want to go out and try what be delicate . `` perhaps fortune may be more favourable to I than it be to my brother , '' he say . `` I shall start on my travels . but what conveyance shall I choose ? be air balloon invent yet ? '' he ask he father , who know of all invention that have be make , or that be to be make . but air balloon have not yet be invent , nor steam ship , nor railway . `` good : then I shall choose a air balloon , '' he say ; `` my father know how they be make and guide . nobody have invent they yet , and consequently the people will believe that it be a aerial phantom . when I have use the balloon I will burn it , and for this purpose you must give I a few piece of the invention that will be make next -- I mean chemical match . '' and he obtain what he want , and fly away . the bird accompany he farther than they have fly with the other brother . they be curious to know what would be the result of the flight , and more of they come sweep up : they think he be some new bird ; and he soon have a goodly following . the air become black with bird , they come on like a cloud -- like the cloud of locust over the land of Egypt . now he be out in the wide world . the balloon descend over one of the greatest city , and the aeronaut take up he station on the highest point , on the church steeple . the balloon rise again , which it ought not to have do : where it go to be not know , but that be not a matter of consequence , for it be not yet invent . then he sit on the church steeple . the bird no longer hover around he , they have get tired of he , and he be tire of they . all the chimney in the town be smoke merrily . `` those be altar erect to thy honor ! '' say the Wind , who wish to say something agreeable to he . he sit boldly up there , and look down upon the people in the street . there be one step along , proud of he purse , another of the key he carry at he girdle , though he have nothing to unlock ; one proud of he moth-eaten coat , another of he waste body . `` Vanity ! I must hasten downward , dip my finger in the pot , and taste ! '' he say . `` but for awhile I will still sit here , for the wind blow so pleasantly against my back . I 'll sit here so long as the wind blow . I 'll enjoy a slight rest . ` it be good to sleep long in the morning , when one have much to do , ' say the lazy man . I 'll stop here so long as this wind blow , for it please I . '' and there he sit , but he be sit upon the weathercock of the steeple , which keep turn round and round with he , so that he be under the false impression that the same wind still blow ; so he might stay up there a goodly while . but in India , in the castle in the tree of the Sun , it be solitary and still , since the brother have go away one after the other . `` it go not well with they , '' say the father ; `` they will never bring the gleaming jewel home ; it be not make for I ; they be go , they be dead ! '' and he bent down over the book of Truth , and gaze at the page on which he should read of life after death ; but for he nothing be to be see or learn upon it . the blind daughter be he consolation and joy : she attach herself with sincere affection to he ; for the sake of he peace and joy she wish the costly jewel might be find and bring home . with kindly longing she think of she brother . where be they ? where do they live ? she wish sincerely that she might dream of they , but it be strange , not even in dream could she approach they . but at length , one night , she dream that the voice of she brother sound across to she , call to she from the wide world , and she could not refrain , but go far far out , and yet it seem in she dream that she be still in she father 's house . she do not meet she brother , but she feel , as it be , a fire burning in she hand , but it do not hurt she , for it be the jewel she be bring to she father . when she awake , she think for a moment that she still hold the stone , but it be the knob of she distaff that she be grasp . during the long night she have spin incessantly , and round the distaff be turn a thread , finer than the finest web of the spider ; human eye be unable to distinguish the separate thread . she have wet they with she tear , and the twist be strong as a cable . she rise , and she resolution be take : the dream must be make a reality . it be night , and she father sleep . she press a kiss on he hand , and then take she distaff , and fasten the end of the thread to she father 's house . but for this , blind as she be , she would never have find she way home ; to the thread she must hold fast , and trust not to herself or to other . from the tree of the Sun she break four leaf ; these she would confide to wind and weather , that they might fly to she brother as a letter and a greet , in case she do not meet they in the wide world . how would she fare out yonder , she , the poor blind child ? but she have the invisible thread to which she could hold fast . she possess a gift which all the other lack . this be _ thoroughness _ ; and in virtue of this it seem as if she could see to the tip of she finger , and hear down into she very heart . and quietly she go forth into the noisy , whirling , wonderful world , and wherever she go the sky grow bright -- she feel the warm ray -- the rainbow spread itself out from the dark world through the blue air . she hear the song of the bird , and smell the scent of orange grove and apple orchard so strongly that she seem to taste it . soft tone and charming song reach she ear , but also howl and roar , and thought and opinion , sound in strange contradiction to each other . Into the innermost depths of she heart penetrate the echo of human thought and feeling . one chorus sound darkly -- `` the life of earth be a shadow vain a night create for sorrow ! '' but then come another strain -- `` the life of earth be the scent of the rose , with its sunshine and its pleasure . '' and if one strophe sound painfully -- `` each mortal think of himself alone , this truth have be manifest '' -- on the other side the answer peal forth -- `` a mighty stream of warmest love , all through the world shall guide we . '' she hear , indeed , the word -- `` in the little petty whirl here below , each thing show mean and paltry ; '' but then come also the comfort -- `` many thing great and good be achieve , that the ear of man heareth never . '' and if sometimes the mock strain sound around she -- `` join in the common cry : with a jest destroy the good gift of the Giver . '' in the blind girl 's heart a stronger voice repeat -- `` to trust in thyself and in God be best ; he good will be do for ever . '' and whenever she enter the circle of human kind , and appear among young or old , the knowledge of the true , the good , and the beautiful beam into they heart . whether she enter the study of the artist , or the festive , decorate hall , or the crowded factory , with its whir wheel , it seem as though a sunbeam be steal in -- as if the sweet string sound , the flower exhale its perfume , and a living dew-drop fall upon the exhaust blood . -lrb-B- illustration : the BLIND GIRL 's messenger . aaaaa -rrb-B- aaa but the evil spirit could not see this and be content . he have more cunning than ten thousand man , and he find out a way to compass he end . he betake himself to the marsh , collect little bubble of the stagnant water , and pass over they a sevenfold echo of lie word to give they strength . then he pound up paid-for heroic poem and lie epitaph , as many as he could get , boil they in tear that envy have shed , put upon they rouge he have scrape from fade cheek , and of these he compose a maiden , with the aspect and gait of the bless blind girl , the angel of thoroughness ; and then the Evil one 's plot be in full progress . the world know not which of the two be the true one ; and , indeed , how should the world know ? `` to trust in thyself and in God be best ; he good will be do for ever , '' sing the blind girl , in full faith . she intrust the four green leaf from the tree of the Sun to the wind , as a letter and a greet to she brother , and have full confidence that they would reach they destination , and that the jewel would be find which outshine all the glory of the world . from the forehead of humanity it would gleam even to the castle of she father . `` even to my father 's house , '' she repeat . `` yes , the place of the jewel be on earth , and I shall bring more than the promise of it with I . I feel its glow , it swell more and more in my closed hand . every grain of truth , be it ever so fine , which the sharp wind carry up and whirl towards I , I take up and treasured ; I let it be penetrate by the fragrance of the beautiful , of which there be so much in the world , even for the blind . I take the sound of the beating heart engage in what be good , and add it to the first . all that I bring be but dust , but still it be the dust of the jewel we seek , and in plenty . I have my whole hand full of it . '' and she stretch forth she hand towards she father . she be soon at home -- she have travel thither in the flight of thought , never have quit she hold of the invisible thread from the paternal home . the evil power rush with hurricane fury over the tree of the Sun , press with a wind-blast against the open door , and into the sanctuary where lay the book of Truth . `` it will be blow away by the wind ! '' say the father , and he seize the hand she have open . `` no , '' she reply , with quiet confidence , `` it can not be blow away ; I feel the beam warm my very soul . '' and the father become aware of a glancing flame , there where the shine dust pour out of she hand over the book of Truth , that be to tell of the certainty of a everlasting life , and on it stand one shine word -- one only word -- `` BELIEVE . '' and with the father and daughter be again the four brother . when the green leaf fall upon the bosom of each , a longing for home have seize they , and lead they back . they have arrive . the bird of passage , and the stag , the antelope , and all the creature of the forest follow they , for all wish to have a part in they joy . we have often see , where a sunbeam burst through a crack in the door into the dusty room , how a whirling column of dust seem circling round ; but this be not poor and insignificant like common dust , for even the rainbow be dead in color compare with the beauty which show itself . thus , from the leaf of the book with the beam word '' _ Believe _ , '' arise every grain of truth , deck with the charm of _ the beautiful _ and _ the good _ , burning brighter than the mighty pillar of flame that lead Moses and the child of Israel through the desert ; and from the word '' _ Believe _ '' the bridge of _ Hope _ arise , span the distance , even to the immeasurable love in the realm of the Infinite .