10 the pack of Ragamuffins BrothersS Grimm the cock once say to the hen , `` it be now the time when we nut be ripe , so let we go to the hill together and for once eat we fill before the squirrel take they all away . '' `` yes , '' reply the hen , `` come , we will have some pleasure together . '' then they go away to the hill , and on it be a bright day they stay till evening . now I do not know whether it be that they have eat till they be too fat , or whether they have become proud , but they would not go home on foot , and the cock have to build a little carriage of nut-shells . when it be ready , the little hen seat herself in it and say to the cock , `` Thou canst just harness thyself to it . '' `` I like that ! '' say the cock , `` I would rather go home on foot than let myself be harness to it ; no , that be not we bargain . I do not mind be coachman and sit on the box , but drag it myself I will not . '' as they be thus dispute , a duck quack to they , `` you thieve folk , who bid you go to my nut-hill ? well , you shall suffer for it ! '' and run with open beak at the cock . but the cock also be not idle , and fall boldly on the duck , and at last wound she so with he spur that she also beg for mercy , and willingly let herself be harness to the carriage as a punishment . the little cock now seat himself on the box and be coachman , and thereupon they go off in a gallop , with `` duck , go as fast as thou canst . '' when they have drive a part of the way they meet two foot-passengers , a pin and a needle . they cry , `` stop ! stop ! '' and say that it would soon be as dark as pitch , and then they could not go a step further , and that it be so dirty on the road , and ask if they could not get into the carriage for a while . they have be at the tailor 's public-house by the gate , and have stay too long over the beer . as they be thin people , who do not take up much room , the cock let they both get in , but they have to promise he and he little hen not to step on they foot . late in the evening they come to a inn , and as they do not like to go further by night , and as the duck also be not strong on she foot , and fall from one side to the other , they go in . the host at first make many objection , he house be already full , besides he think they could not be very distinguished person ; but at last , as they make pleasant speech , and tell he that he should have the egg which the little hen have lay on the way , and should likewise keep the duck , which lay one every day , he at length say that they might stay the night . and now they have themselves well serve , and feast and riot . early in the morning , when day be break , and every one be asleep , the cock awake the hen , bring the egg , peck it open , and they eat it together , but they throw the shell on the hearth . then they go to the needle which be still asleep , take it by the head and stick it into the cushion of the landlord 's chair , and put the pin in he towel , and at the last without more ado they fly away over the heath . the duck who like to sleep in the open air and have stay in the yard , hear they go away , make herself merry and find a stream , down which she swim , which be a much quicker way of travel than be harness to a carriage . the host do not get out of bed for two hour after this ; he wash himself and want to dry himself , then the pin go over he face and make a red streak from one ear to the other . after this he go into the kitchen and want to light a pipe , but when he come to the hearth the egg-shell dart into he eye . `` this morning everything attack my head , '' say he , and angrily sit down on he grandfather 's chair , but he quickly start up again and cry , `` woe be I , '' for the needle have prick he still worse than the pin , and not in the head . now he be thoroughly angry , and suspect the guest who have come so late the night before , and when he go and look about for they , they be go . then he make a vow to take no more ragamuffin into he house , for they consume much , pay for nothing , and play mischievous trick into the bargain by way of gratitude .