the MARSH KING be DAUGHTER . H. C. Andersen the stork tell they little one very many story , all of the moor and the marsh . these story be generally adapt to the age and capacity of the hearer . the youngest be content if they be tell `` kribble-krabble , plurre-murre '' as a story , and find it charming ; but the older one want something with a deeper meaning , or at any rate something relate to the family . of the two oldest and longest story that have be preserve among the stork , we be only acquaint with one , namely , that of Moses , who be expose by he mother on the bank of the Nile , and whom the king 's daughter find , and who afterwards become a great man and a prophet . that history be very well know . the second be not know yet , perhaps , because it be quite a inland story . it have be hand down from mouth to mouth , from stork-mamma to stork-mamma , for thousand of year , and each of they have tell it better and better ; and now _ we _ 'll tell it best of all . the first stork pair who tell the story have they summer residence on the wooden house of the Viking , which lay by the wild moor in Wendsyssel ; that be to say , if we be to speak out of the abundance of we knowledge , hard by the great moor in the circle of Hjoerring , high up by the Skagen , the northern point of Jutland . the wilderness there be still a great wide moor-heath , about which we can read in the official description of district . it be say that in old time there be here a sea , whose bottom be upheave ; now the moorland extend for mile on all side , surround by damp meadow , and unsteady shake swamp , and turfy moor , with blueberry and stunt tree . mist be almost always hover over this region , which seventy year ago be still inhabit by wolf . it be certainly rightly call the `` wild moor ; '' and one can easily think how dreary and lonely it must have be , and how much marsh and lake there be here a thousand year ago . Yes , in detail , exactly the same thing be see then that may yet be behold . the reed have the same height , and bear the same kind of long leaf and bluish-brown feathery plume that they bear now ; the birch stand there , with its white bark and its fine loosely-hanging leaf , just as now ; and as regard the live creature that dwell here -- why , the fly wear its gauzy dress of the same cut that it wear now ; and the favorite color of the stork be white pick out with black , and red stocking . the people certainly wear coat of a different cut to those they now wear ; but whoever step out on the shake moorland , be he huntsman or follower , master or servant , meet with the same fate a thousand year ago that he would meet with to-day . he sink and go down to the `` marsh king , '' as they call he , who rule below in the great moorland empire . they also call he `` gungel king ; '' but we like the name `` marsh king '' better , and by that we 'll call he , as the stork do . very little be know of the marsh king 's rule ; but perhaps that be a good thing . in the neighborhood of the moorland , hard by the great arm of the German Ocean and the Cattegat , which be call the Luemfjorden , lay the wooden house of the Viking , with its stone water-tight cellar , with its tower and its three project story . on the roof the stork have build he nest ; and stork-mamma there hatch the egg , and feel sure that she hatching would come to something . one evening stork-papa stay out very long ; and when he come home he look very bustling and important . `` I have something very terrible to tell you , '' he say to the stork-mamma . `` let that be , '' she reply . `` remember that I be hatch the egg , and you might agitate I , and I might do they a mischief . '' `` you must know it , '' he continue . `` she have arrive here -- the daughter of we host in Egypt -- she have dare to undertake the journey here -- and she be go ! '' `` she who come from the race of the fairy ? oh , tell I all about it ! you know I can not bear to be keep long in suspense when I be hatch egg . '' `` you see , mother , she believe in what the doctor say , and you tell I true . she believe that the moor flower would bring heal to she sick father , and she have fly here in swan 's plumage , in company with the other swan-princesses , who come to the North every year to renew they youth . she have come here , and she be go ! '' `` you be much too long-winded ! '' exclaim the stork-mamma , `` and the egg might catch cold . I can not bear be keep in such suspense ! '' `` I have keep watch , '' say the stork-papa ; `` and to-night , when I go into the reed -- there where the marsh ground will bear I -- three swan come . something in they flight seem to say to I , ` look out ! that be not altogether swan ; it be only swan 's feather ! ' yes , mother , you have a feeling of intuition just as I have ; you know whether a thing be right or wrong . '' `` yes , certainly , '' she reply ; `` but tell I about the princess . I be sick of hearing of the swan 's feather . '' `` well , you know that in the middle of the moor there be something like a lake , '' continue stork-papa . `` you can see one corner of it if you raise yourself a little . there , by the reed and the green mud , lay a great alder stump ; and on this the three swan sit , flap they wing and look about they . one of they throw off she plumage , and I immediately recognize she as we house princess from Egypt ! there she sit , with no covering but she long black hair . I hear she tell the other to pay good heed to the swan 's plumage , while she dive down into the water to pluck the flower which she fancy she see grow there . the other nod , and pick up the empty feather dress and take care of it . ` I wonder what they will do with it ? ' thought I ; and perhaps she ask herself the same question . if so , she get a answer -- a very practical answer -- for the two rise up and fly away with she swan 's plumage . ` do thou dive down , ' they cry ; ` thou shalt never see Egypt again ! remain thou here in the moor ! ' and so say , they tear the swan 's plumage into a thousand piece , so that the feather whirl about like a snow-storm ; and away they fly -- the two faithless princess ! '' -lrb-B- illustration : the PRINCESS LEFT in the MARSH . aaaaa -rrb-B- aaa `` why , that be terrible ! '' say stork-mamma . `` I can not bear to hear any more of it . but now tell I what happen next . '' `` the princess weep and lament aloud . she tear fall fast on the alder stump , and the latter move ; for it be not a regular alder stump , but the marsh king -- he who live and rule in the depths of the moor ! I myself see it -- how the stump of the tree turn round , and cease to be a tree stump ; long thin branch grow forth from it like arm . then the poor child be terribly frightened , and spring up to flee away . she hurry across to the green slimy ground ; but that can not even carry I , much less she . she sink immediately , and the alder stump dive down too ; and it be he who draw she down . great black bubble rise up out of the moor-slime , and the last trace of both of they vanish when these burst . now the princess be bury in the wild moor , and never more will she bear away a flower to Egypt . you heart would have burst , mother , if you have see it . '' `` you ought not to tell I anything of the kind at such a time as this , '' say stork-mamma ; `` the egg might suffer by it . the princess will find some way of escape ; some one will come to help she . if it have be you or I , or one of we people , it would certainly have be all over with we . '' `` but I shall go and look every day to see if anything happen , '' say stork-papa . and he be as good as he word . a long time have pass , when at last he see a green stalk shoot up out of the deep moor-ground . when it reach the surface , a leaf spread out and unfold itself broader and broader ; close by it , a bud come out . and one morning , when stork-papa fly over the stalk , the bud open through the power of the strong sunbeam , and in the cup of the flower lay a beautiful child -- a little girl -- look just as if she have rise out of the bath . the little one so closely resemble the princess from Egypt , that at the first moment the stork think it must be the princess herself ; but , on second thought , it appear more probable that it must be the daughter of the princess and of the marsh king ; and that also explain she being place in the cup of the water-lily . `` but she can not possibly be leave lie there , '' think stork-papa ; `` and in my nest there be so many person already . but stay , I have a thought . the wife of the Viking have no child , and how often have she not wish for a little one ! people always say , ` the stork have bring a little one ; ' and I will do so in earnest this time . I shall fly with the child to the Viking 's wife . what rejoice there will be yonder ! '' and the stork lift the little girl out of the flower-cup , fly to the wooden house , pick a hole with he beak in the bladder-covered window , lay the charming child on the bosom of the Viking 's wife , and then hurry up to the stork-mamma , and tell she what he have see and do ; and the little stork listen to the story , for they be big enough to do so now . `` so you see , '' he conclude , `` the princess be not dead , for she must have send the little one up here ; and now that be provide for too . '' `` ah , I say it would be so , from the very begin ! '' say the stork-mamma ; `` but now think a little of you own family . we travel time be draw on ; sometimes I feel quite restless in my wing already . the cuckoo and the nightingale have start ; and I hear the quail say that they be go too , so soon as the wind be favourable . we young one will behave well at the exercise , or I be much deceive in they . '' the Viking 's wife be extremely glad when she wake next morning and find the charming infant lie in she arm . she kiss and caress it ; but it cry violently , and struggle with its arm and leg , and do not seem rejoice at all . at length it cry itself to sleep ; and as it lay there still and tranquil , it look exceedingly beautiful . the Viking 's wife be in high glee : she feel light in body and soul ; she heart leap within she ; and it seem to she as if she husband and he warrior , who be absent , must return quite as suddenly and unexpectedly as the little one have come . therefore she and the whole household have enough to do in prepare everything for the reception of she lord . the long color curtain of tapestry , which she and she maid have work , and on which they have weave picture of they idol , Odin , Thor , and Freya , be hang up ; the slave polish the old shield , that serve as ornament ; and cushion be place on the bench , and dry wood lay on the fireplace in the midst of the hall , so that the flame might be fan up at a moment 's notice . the Viking 's wife herself assist in the work , so that towards evening she be very tired , and go to sleep quickly and lightly . when she awake towards morning , she be violently alarm , for the infant have vanish ! she spring from she couch , light a pine-torch , and search all round about ; and , behold , in the part of the bed where she have stretch she foot , lay , not the child , but a great ugly frog ! she be horror-struck at the sight , and seize a heavy stick to kill the frog ; but the creature look at she with such strange , mournful eye , that she be not able to strike the blow . once more she look round the room -- the frog utter a low , wail croak , and she start , spring from the couch , and run to the window and open it . at that moment the sun shone forth , and fling its beam through the window on the couch and on the great frog ; and suddenly it appear as though the frog 's great mouth contract and become small and red , and its limb move and stretch and become beautifully symmetrical , and it be no longer a ugly frog which lay there , but she pretty child ! `` what be this ? '' she say . `` have I have a bad dream ? be it not my own lovely cherub lie there ? '' and she kiss and hug it ; but the child struggle and fight like a little wild cat . not on this day nor on the morrow do the Viking return , although he certainly be on he way home ; but the wind be against he , for it blow towards the south , favourably for the stork . a good wind for one be a contrary wind for another . when one or two more day and night have go , the Viking 's wife clearly understand how the case be with she child , that a terrible power of sorcery be upon it . by day it be charming as a angel of light , though it have a wild , savage temper ; but at night it become a ugly frog , quiet and mournful , with sorrowful eye . here be two nature change inwardly as well as outwardly with the sunlight . the reason of this be that by day the child have the form of its mother , but the disposition of its father ; while , on the contrary , at night the paternal descent become manifest in its bodily appearance , though the mind and heart of the mother then become dominant in the child . who might be able to loosen this charm that wicked sorcery have work ? the wife of the Viking live in care and sorrow about it ; and yet she heart yearn towards the little creature , of whose condition she feel she should not dare tell she husband on he return ; for he would probably , accord to the custom which then prevail , expose the child on the public highway , and let whoever list take it away . the good Viking woman could not find it in she heart to allow this , and she therefore determine that the Viking should never see the child except by daylight . one morning the wing of stork be hear rush over the roof ; more than a hundred pair of those bird have rest from they exercise during the previous night , and now they soar aloft , to travel southward . `` all male here , and ready , '' they cry ; `` and the wife and child too . '' `` how light we feel ! '' scream the young stork in chorus : `` it seem to be creep all over we , down into we very toe , as if we be fill with frog . ah , how charming it be , travel to foreign land ! '' `` mind you keep close to we during you flight , '' say papa and mamma . `` do not use you beak too much , for that tire the chest . '' and the stork fly away . at the same time the sound of the trumpet roll across the heath , for the Viking have land with he warrior ; they be return home , richly laden with spoil , from the gallic coast , where the people , as in the land of the Britons , sing in frightened accent : `` deliver we from the wild Northmen ! '' -lrb-B- illustration : the viking be FEAST . aaaaa -rrb-B- aaa and life and tumultuous joy come with they into the Viking 's castle on the moorland . the great mead tub be bring into the hall , the pile of wood be set ablaze , horse be kill , and a great feast be to begin . the officiating priest sprinkle the slave with the warm blood ; the fire crackle , the smoke roll along beneath the roof ; but they be accustom to that . guest be invite , and receive handsome gift : all feud and all malice be forget . and the company drank deep , and throw the bone of the feast in each other ' face , and this be consider a sign of good humor . the bard , a kind of minstrel , but who be also a warrior , and have be on the expedition with the rest , sing they a song , in which they hear all they warlike deed praise , and everything remarkable specially notice . every verse end with the burden : `` Goods and gold , friend and foe will die ; every man must one day die ; but a famous name will never die ! '' and with that they beat upon they shield , and hammer the table in glorious fashion with bone and knife . the Viking 's wife sit upon the high seat in the open hall . she wear a silken dress , and golden armlet , and great amber bead : she be in she costliest garb . and the bard mention she in he song , and sing of the rich treasure she have bring she rich husband . the latter be delight with the beautiful child , which he have see in the daytime in all its loveliness ; and the savage way of the little creature please he especially . he declare that the girl might grow up to be a stately heroine , strong and determine as a man . she would not wink she eye when a practiced hand cut off she eyebrow with a sword by way of a jest . the full mead barrel be empty , and a fresh one bring in ; for these be people who like to enjoy all thing plentifully . the old proverb be indeed well know , which say , `` the cattle know when they should quit the pasture , but a foolish man knoweth not the measure of he own appetite . '' yes , they know it well enough ; but one _ know _ one thing , and one _ do _ another . they also know that `` even the welcome guest become wearisome when he sitteth long in the house ; '' but for all that they sit still , for pork and mead be good thing ; and there be high carousing , and at night the bondman sleep among the warm ash , and dip they finger in the fat grease and lick they . those be glorious time ! once more in the year the Viking sally forth , though the storm of autumn already begin to roar : he go with he warrior to the shore of Britain , for he declare that be but a excursion across the water ; and he wife stay at home with the little girl . and thus much be certain , that the poor lady soon get to love the frog with its gentle eye and its sorrowful sigh , almost better than the pretty child that bit and beat all around she . the rough damp mist of autumn , which devour the leaf of the forest , have already descend upon thicket and heath . `` bird feather-less , '' as they call the snow , fly in thick mass , and winter be come on fast . the sparrow take possession of the stork ' nest , and talk about the absent proprietor accord to they fashion ; but these -- the stork pair , with all the young one -- what have become of they ? the stork be now in the land of Egypt , where the sun send forth warm ray , as it do here on a fine midsummer day . tamarind and acacia bloom in the country all around ; the crescent of Mahomet glitter from the cupola of the temple , and on the slender tower sit many a stork pair rest after the long journey . great troops divide the nest , build close together on venerable pillar and in fallen temple arch of forget city . the date-palm lift up its screen as if it would be a sunshade ; the greyish-white pyramid stand like mass of shadow in the clear air of the far desert , where the ostrich run he swift career , and the lion gaze with he great grave eye at the marble sphinx which lay half bury in the sand . the water of the Nile have fall , and the whole river bed be crowd with frog , and this spectacle be just accord to the taste of the stork family . the young stork think it be optical illusion , they find everything so glorious . `` yes , it be delightful here ; and it be always like this in we warm country , '' say the stork-mamma ; and the young one feel quite frisky on the strength of it . `` be there anything more to be see ? '' they ask . `` be we to go much farther into the country ? '' `` there be nothing further to be see , '' answer stork-mamma . `` behind this delightful region there be luxuriant forest , whose branch be interlace with one another , while prickly climb plant close up the path -- only the elephant can force a way for himself with he great foot ; and the snake be too big , and the lizard too quick for we . if you go into the desert , you 'll get you eye full of sand when there be a light breeze , but when it blow great gun you may get into the middle of a pillar of sand . it be best to stay here , where there be frog and locust . I shall stay here , and you shall stay too . '' and there they remain . the parent sit in the nest on the slender minaret , and rest , and yet be busily employ smoothing and clean they feather , and whet they beak against they red stocking . now and then they stretch out they neck , and bow gravely , and lift they head , with they high forehead and fine smooth feather , and look very clever with they brown eye . the female young one strut about in the juicy reed , look slyly at the other young stork , make acquaintance , and swallow a frog at every third step , or roll a little snake to and fro in they bill , which they think become they well , and , moreover , taste nice . the male young one begin a quarrel , beat each other with they wing , strike with they beak , and even prick each other till the blood come . and in this way sometimes one couple be betroth , and sometimes another , of the young lady and gentleman , and that be just what they want , and they chief object in life : then they take to a new nest , and begin new quarrel , for in hot country people be generally hot-tempered and passionate . but it be pleasant for all that , and the old people especially be much rejoiced , for all that young people do seem to suit they well . there be sunshine every day , and every day plenty to eat , and nothing to think of but pleasure . but in the rich castle at the egyptian host 's , as they call he , there be no pleasure to be find . the rich mighty lord recline on he divan , in the midst of the great hall of the many-coloured wall , look as if he be sit in a tulip ; but he be stiff and powerless in all he limb , and lay stretch out like a mummy . he family and servant surround he , for he be not dead , though one could not exactly say that he be alive . the heal moor flower from the North , which be to have be find and bring home by she who love he best , never appear . he beauteous young daughter , who have fly in the swan 's plumage over sea and land , to the far north , be never to come back . `` she be dead ! '' the two return swan-maidens have say , and they have concoct a complete story , which run as follow : `` we three together fly high in the air : a hunter see we , and shoot he arrow at we ; it strike we young companion and friend ; and slowly , sing she farewell song , she sink down , a die swan , into the woodland lake . by the shore of the lake , under a weep birch tree , we lay she in the cool earth . but we have we revenge . we bind fire under the wing of the swallow who have she nest beneath the huntsman 's thatch ; the house burst into flame , the huntsman be burn in the house , and the glare shone over the sea as far as the hanging birch beneath which she sleep . never will she return to the land of Egypt . '' and then the two weep . and when stork-papa hear the story , he clap with he beak so that it could be hear a long way off . -lrb-B- illustration : the king of EGYPT DECEIVED by the princess . aaaaa -rrb-B- aaa `` Treachery and lie ! '' he cry . `` I should like to run my beak deep into they chest . '' `` and perhaps break it off , '' interpose the stork-mamma ; `` and then you would look well . think first of yourself , and then of you family , and all the rest do not concern you . '' `` but to-morrow I shall seat myself at the edge of the open cupola , when the wise and learn man assemble , to consult on the sick man 's state : perhaps they may come a little nearer the truth . '' and the learn and wise man come together and speak a great deal , out of which the stork could make no sense -- and it have no result , either for the sick man or for the daughter in the swampy waste . but for all that we may listen to what the people say , for we have to listen to a great deal of talk in the world . but then it be a advantage to hear what go before , what have be say ; and in this case we be well inform , for we know just as much about it as stork-papa . `` Love give life ! the highest love give the highest life ! only through love can he life be preserve . '' that be what they all say , and the learn man say it be very cleverly and beautifully speak . `` that be a beautiful thought ! '' stork-papa say immediately . `` I do not quite understand it , '' stork-mamma reply : `` and that be not my fault , but the fault of the thought . but let it be as it will , I have something else to think of . '' and now the learn man have speak of love to this one and that one , and of the difference between the love of one 's neighbor and love between parent and child , of the love of plant for the light , when the sunbeam kiss the ground and the germ spring forth from it , -- everything be so fully and elaborately explain that it be quite impossible for stork-papa to take it in , much less to repeat it . he feel quite weigh down with thought , and half shut he eye , and the whole of the following day he stand thoughtfully on one leg : it be quite heavy for he to carry , all that learning . but one thing stork-papa understand . all , high and low , have speak out of they inmost heart , and say that it be a great misfortune for thousand of people , yes , for the whole country , that this man be lie sick , and could not get well , and that it would spread joy and pleasure abroad if he should recover . but where grow the flower that could restore he to health ? they have all search for it , consult learn book , the twinkling star , the weather and the wind ; they have make inquiry in every byway of which they could think ; and at length the wise man and the learn man have say , as we have already tell , that `` Love beget life -- will restore a father 's life ; '' and on this occasion they have surpass themselves , and say more than they understand . they repeat it , and write down as a recipe , `` Love beget life . '' but how be the thing to be prepare accord to the recipe ? that be a point they could not get over . at last they be decide upon the point that help must come by means of the princess , through she who cleave to she father with she whole soul ; and at last a method have be devise whereby help could be procure in this dilemma . Yes , it be already more than a year ago since the princess have sally forth by night , when the brief ray of the new moon be wane : she have go out to the marble sphinx , have shake the dust from she sandal , and go onward through the long passage which lead into the midst of one of the great pyramid , where one of the mighty king of antiquity , surround by pomp and treasure , lay swathe in mummy cloth . there she be to incline she ear to the breast of the dead king ; for thus , say the wise man , it should be make manifest to she where she might find life and health for she father . she have fulfil all these injunction , and have see in a vision that she be to bring home from the deep lake in the northern moorland -- the very place have be accurately describe to she -- the loto flower which grow in the depths of the water , and then she father would regain health and strength . and therefore she have go forth in the swan 's plumage out of the land of Egypt to the open heath , to the woodland moor . and the stork-papa and stork-mamma know all this ; and now we also know it more accurately than we know it before . we know that the marsh king have draw she down to himself , and know that to she love one at home she be dead for ever . one of the wisest of they say , as the stork-mamma say too , `` she will manage to help herself ; '' and at last they quiet they mind with that , and resolve to wait and see what would happen , for they know of nothing better that they could do . `` I should like to take away the swan 's feather from the two faithless princess , '' say the stork-papa ; `` then , at any rate , they will not be able to fly up again to the wild moor and do mischief . I 'll hide the two swan-feather suit up there , till somebody have occasion for they . '' `` but where do you intend to hide they ? '' asked stork-mamma . `` up in we nest in the moor , '' answer he . `` I and we young one will take turn in carry they up yonder , on we return , and if that should prove too difficult for we , there be place enough on the way where we can conceal they till we next journey . certainly , one suit of swan 's feather would be enough for the princess , but two be always better . in those northern country no one can have too many wrap . '' `` no one will thank you for it , '' quoth stork-mamma ; `` but you be the master . except at breeding-time , I have nothing to say . '' in the Viking 's castle by the wild moor , whither the stork bent they flight when the spring approach , they have give the little girl the name of Helga ; but this name be too soft for a temper like that which be associate with she beauteous form . every month this temper show itself in sharper outline ; and in the course of year -- during which the stork make the same journey over and over again , in autumn to the Nile , in spring back to the moorland lake -- the child grow to be a great girl ; and before people be aware of it , she be a beautiful maiden in she sixteenth year . the shell be splendid , but the kernel be harsh and hard ; and she be hard , as indeed be most people in those dark , gloomy time . it be a pleasure to she to splash about with she white hand in the blood of the horse that have be slay in sacrifice . in she wild mood she bit off the neck of the black cock the priest be about to offer up ; and to she father she say in perfect seriousness , `` if thy enemy should pull down the roof of thy house , while thou wert sleep in careless safety ; if I feel it or hear it , I would not wake thee even if I have the power . I should never do it , for my ear still tingle with the blow that thou gavest I year ago -- thou ! I have never forget it . '' but the Viking take she word in jest ; for , like all other , he be bewitch with she beauty , and he know not how temper and form change in Helga . without a saddle she sit upon a horse , as if she be part of it , while it rush along in full career ; nor would she spring from the horse when it quarrel and fight with other horse . often she would throw herself , in she clothes , from the high shore into the sea , and swim to meet the Viking when he boat steer near home ; and she cut the longest lock of she hair , and twist it into a string for she bow . `` self-achieved be well-achieved , '' she say . the Viking 's wife be strong of character and of will , accord to the custom of the time ; but , compare to she daughter , she appear as a feeble , timid woman ; for she know that a evil charm weigh heavily upon the unfortunate child . it seem as if , out of mere malice , when she mother stand on the threshold or come out into the yard , Helga , would often seat herself on the margin of the well , and wave she arm in the air ; then suddenly she would dive into the deep well , when she frog nature enable she to dive and rise , down and up , until she climb forth again like a cat , and come back into the hall drip with water , so that the green leave strew upon the ground float and turn in the stream that flow from she garment . -lrb-B- illustration : the transformed princess . aaaaa -rrb-B- aaa but there be one thing that impose a check upon Helga , and that be the evening twilight . when that come she be quiet and thoughtful , and would listen to reproof and advice ; and then a secret feeling seem to draw she towards she mother . and when the sun sink , and the usual transformation of body and spirit take place in she , she would sit quiet and mournful , shrink to the shape of the frog , she body indeed much larger than that of the animal whose likeness she take , and for that reason much more hideous to behold ; for she look like a wretched dwarf with a frog 's head and webbed finger . she eye then assume a very melancholy expression . she have no voice , and could only utter a hollow croaking that sound like the stifled sob of a dream child . then the Viking 's wife take she on she lap , and forget the ugly form as she look into the mournful eye , and say , `` I could almost wish that thou wert always my poor dumb frog-child ; for thou art only the more terrible when thy nature be veil in a form of beauty . '' and the Viking woman write runic character against sorcery and spell of sickness , and throw they over the wretched child ; but she could not see that they work any good . `` one can scarcely believe that she be ever so small that she could lie in the cup of a water-lily , '' say stork-papa , `` now she be grow up the image of she egyptian mother . ah , we shall never see that poor lady again ! probably she do not know how to help herself , as you and the learn man say . year after year I have fly to and fro , across and across the great moorland , and she have never once give a sign that she be still alive . yes , I may as well tell you , that every year , when I come here a few day before you , to repair the nest and attend to various matter , I spend a whole night in fly to and fro over the lake , as if I have be a owl or a bat , but every time in vain . the two suit of swan feather which I and the young one drag up here out of the land of the Nile have consequently not be use : we have trouble enough with they to bring they hither in three journey ; and now they lie down here in the nest , and if it should happen that a fire break out , and the wooden house be burn , they would be destroy . '' `` and we good nest would be destroy too , '' say stork-mamma ; `` but you think less of that than of you plumage stuff and of you moor-princess . you would best go down into the mud and stay there with she . you be a bad father to you own child , as I say already when I hatch we first brood . I only hope neither we nor we child will get a arrow in we wing through that wild girl . Helga do not know in the least what she do . I wish she would only remember that we have live here longer than she , and that we have never forget we duty , and have give we toll every year , a feather , a egg , and a young one , as it be right we should do . Do you think I can now wander about in the courtyard and everywhere , as I be wont in former day , and as I still do in Egypt , where I be almost the playfellow of the people , and that I can press into pot and kettle as I can yonder ? no , I sit up here and be angry at she , the stupid chit ! and I be angry at you too . you should have just leave she lie in the water-lily , and she would have be dead long ago . '' `` you be much better than you word , '' say stork-papa . `` I know you better than you know yourself . '' and with that he give a hop , and flap he wing heavily twice , stretch out he leg behind he , and fly away , or rather sail away , without move he wing . he have already go some distance , when he give a great _ flap _ ! the sun shone upon he grand plumage , and he head and neck be stretch forth proudly . there be power in it , and dash ! `` after all , he be handsomer than any of they , '' say stork-mamma to herself ; `` but I will not tell he so . '' early in that autumn the Viking come home , laden with booty , and bring prisoner with he . among these be a young christian priest , one of those who contemn the god of the North . often in those later time there have be a talk , in hall and chamber , of the new faith that be spread far and wide in the South , and which , by means of Saint Ansgarius , have penetrate as far as Hedeby on the Schlei . even Helga have hear of this belief in one who , from love to man and for they redemption , have sacrifice he life ; but with she all this have , as the say be , go in at one ear and come out at the other . it seem as if she only understand the meaning of the word `` love , '' when she crouch in a corner of the chamber in the form of a miserable frog ; but the Viking 's wife have listen to the mighty history that be tell throughout the land , and have feel strangely move thereby . on they return from they voyage , the man tell of the splendid temple , of they hew stone , raise for the worship of he whose worship be love . some massive vessel , make with cunning art , of gold , have be bring home among the booty , and each one have a peculiar fragrance ; for they be incense vessel , which have be swing by Christian priest before the altar . in the deep cellar of the Viking 's house the young priest have be immure , he hand and foot bind with strip of bark . the Viking 's wife declare that he be beautiful as Bulder to behold , and he misfortune touch she heart ; but Helga declare that it would be right to tie rope to he heel , and fasten he to the tail of wild ox . and she exclaim , `` then I would let loose the dog -- hurrah ! over the moor and across the swamp ! that would be a spectacle for the god ! and yet finer would it be to follow he in he career . '' but the Viking would not suffer he to die such a death : he purpose to sacrifice the priest on the morrow , on the death-stone in the grove , as a despiser and foe of the high god . for the first time a man be to be sacrifice here . Helga beg , as a boon , that she might sprinkle the image of the god and the assemble multitude with the blood of the priest . she sharpen she glittering knife , and when one of the great savage dog , of whom a number be run about near the Viking 's abode , run by she , she thrust the knife into he side , `` merely to try its sharpness , '' as she say . and the Viking 's wife look mournfully at the wild , evil-disposed girl ; and when night come on and the maiden exchange beauty of form for gentleness of soul , she speak in eloquent word to Helga of the sorrow that be deep in she heart . the ugly frog , in its monstrous form , stand before she , and fix its brown eye upon she face , listen to she word , and seem to comprehend they with human intelligence . `` never , not even to my lord and husband , have I allow my lip to utter a word concern the suffering I have to undergo through thee , '' say the Viking 's wife ; `` my heart be full of woe concern thee : more powerful , and greater than I ever fancy it , be the love of a mother ! but love never enter into thy heart -- thy heart that be like the wet , cold moorland plant . '' then the miserable form tremble , and it be as though these word touch a invisible bond between body and soul , and great tear come into the mournful eye . `` Thy hard time will come , '' say the Viking 's wife ; `` and it will be terrible to I too . it have be better if thou hadst be set out by the high-road , and the night wind have lull thee to sleep . '' and the Viking 's wife weep bitter tear , and go away full of wrath and bitterness of spirit , vanish behind the curtain of fur that hang loose over the beam and divide the hall . the wrinkled frog crouch in the corner alone . a deep silence reign around ; but at interval a half-stifled sigh escape from its breast , from the breast of Helga . it seem as though a painful new life be arise in she inmost heart . she come forward and listen ; and , step forward again , grasp with she clumsy hand the heavy pole that be lay across before the door . silently and laboriously she push back the pole , silently draw back the bolt , and take up the flicker lamp which stand in the antechamber of the hall . it seem as if a strong hidden will give she strength . she draw back the iron bolt from the closed cellar door , and creep in to the captive . he be asleep ; and when he awake and see the hideous form , he shudder as though he have behold a wicked apparition . she draw she knife , cut the bond that confine he hand and foot , and beckon he to follow she . -lrb-B- illustration : the flight . aaaaa -rrb-B- aaa he utter some holy name , and make the sign of the cross ; and when the form remain motionless at he side , he say , `` who art thou ? whence this animal shape that thou bearest , while yet thou art full of gentle mercy ? '' the frog-woman beckon he to follow , and lead he through corridor shroud with curtain , into the stable , and there point to a horse . he mount on its back ; but she also spring up before he , hold fast by the horse 's mane . the prisoner understand she meaning , and in a rapid trot they ride on a way which he would never have find , out on to the open heath . he think not of she hideous form , but feel how the mercy and loving-kindness of the Almighty be work by means of this monstrous apparition ; he pray pious prayer , and sing song of praise . then she tremble . be it the power of song and of prayer that work in she , or be she shudder at the cold morning twilight that be approach ? what be she feeling ? she raise herself up , and want to stop the horse and to alight ; but the Christian priest hold she back with all he strength , and sing a pious song , as if that would have the power to loosen the charm that turn she into the hideous semblance of a frog . and the horse gallopp on more wildly than ever ; the sky turn red , the first sunbeam pierce through the cloud , and as the flood of light come stream down , the frog change its nature . Helga be again the beautiful maiden with the wicked , demoniac spirit . he hold a beautiful maiden in he arm , but be horrify at the sight : he swing himself from the horse , and compel it to stand . this seem to he a new and terrible sorcery ; but Helga likewise leap from the saddle , and stand on the ground . the child 's short garment reach only to she knee . she pluck the sharp knife from she girdle , and quick as lightning she rush in upon the astonished priest . `` let I get at thee ! '' she scream ; `` let I get at thee , and plunge this knife in thy body ! Thou art pale as straw , thou beardless slave ! '' she press in upon he . they struggle together in a hard strife , but a invisible power seem give to the Christian captive . he hold she fast ; and the old oak tree beneath which they stand come to he assistance ; for its root , which project over the ground , hold fast the maiden 's foot that have become entangled in it . quite close to they gush a spring ; and he sprinkle Helga 's face and neck with the fresh water , and command the unclean spirit to come forth , and bless she in the Christian fashion ; but the water of faith have no power when the well-spring of faith flow not from within . and yet the Christian show he power even now , and oppose more than the mere might of a man against the evil that struggle within the girl . he holy action seem to overpower she : she drop she hand , and gaze with frightened eye and pale cheek upon he who appear to she a mighty magician learn in secret art ; he seem to she to speak in a dark runic tongue , and to be make cabalistic sign in the air . she would not have wink have he swing a sharp knife or a glittering axe against she ; but she tremble when he sign she with the sign of the cross on she brow and she bosom , and she sit there like a tame bird with bow head . -lrb-B- illustration : the CHRISTIAN PRIEST be SPELL . aaaaa -rrb-B- aaa then he speak to she in gentle word of the kindly deed she have do for he in the past night , when she come to he in the form of the hideous frog , to loosen he bond , and to lead he out to life and light ; and he tell she that she too be bind in closer bond than those that have confine he , and that she should be release by he means . he would take she to Hedeby -lrb-B- Schleswig -rrb-B- , to the holy Ansgarius , and yonder in the christian city the spell that bind she would be loose . but he would not let she sit before he on the horse , though of she own accord she offer to do so . `` Thou must sit behind I , not before I , '' he say . `` thy magic beauty hath a power that come of evil , and I fear it ; and yet I feel that the victory be sure to he who have faith . '' and he kneel down and pray fervently . it seem as though the woodland scene be consecrate as a holy church by he prayer . the bird sing as though they belong to the new congregation , the wild flower smell sweet as incense ; and while he speak the horse that have carry they both in headlong career stand still before the tall bramble bush , and pluck at they , so that the ripe juicy berry fall down upon Helga 's hand , offer themselves for she refreshment . patiently she suffer the priest to lift she on the horse , and sit like a somnambulist , neither completely asleep nor wholly awake . the Christian bind two branch together with bark , in the form of a cross , which he hold up high as they ride through the forest . the wood become thicker as they go on , and at last become a trackless wilderness . the wild sloe grow across the way , so that they have to ride round the bush . the bubble spring become not a stream but a standing marsh , round which likewise they be oblige to lead the horse . there be strength and refreshment in the cool forest breeze ; and no small power lay in the gentle word , which be speak in faith and in christian love , from a strong inward yearning to lead the poor lose one into the way of light and life . they say the rain-drops can hollow the hard stone , and the wave of the sea can smooth and round the sharp edge of the rock . thus do the dew of mercy , that drop upon Helga , smooth what be rough , and penetrate what be hard in she . the effect do not yet appear , nor be she aware of they herself ; but doth the seed in the bosom of earth know , when the refresh dew and the quicken sunbeam fall upon it , that it hath within itself the power of growth and blossom ? as the song of the mother penetrate into the heart of the child , and it babble the word after she , without understand they import , until they afterwards engender thought , and come forward in due time clearer and more clearly , so here also do the word work , that be powerful to create . they ride forth from the dense forest , across the heath , and then again through pathless road ; and towards evening they encounter a band of robber . -lrb-B- Illustration : HELGA and the priest attack by robber . aaaaa -rrb-B- aaa `` where hast thou steal that beauteous maiden ? '' cry the robber ; and they seize the horse 's bridle , and drag the two rider from its back . the priest have no weapon save the knife he have take from Helga ; and with this he try to defend himself . one of the robber lift he axe to slay he , but the young priest spring aside and elude the blow , which strike deep into the horse 's neck , so that the blood spurt forth , and the creature sink down on the ground . then Helga seem suddenly to wake from she long reverie , and throw herself hastily upon the gasp animal . the priest stand before she to protect and defend she , but one of the robber swing he iron hammer over the Christian 's head , and bring it down with such a crash that blood and brain be scatter around , and the priest sink to the earth , dead . then the robber 's seize beautiful Helga by she white arm and she slender waist ; but the sun go down , and its last ray disappear at that moment , and she be change into the form of a frog . a white-green mouth spread over half she face , she arm become thin and slimy , and broad hand with webbed finger spread out upon they like fan . then the robber be seize with terror , and let she go . she stand , a hideous monster , among they ; and as it be the nature of the frog to do , she hop up high , and disappear in the thicket . then the robber see that this must be a bad prank of the spirit Loke , or the evil power of magic , and in great affright they hurry away from the spot . the full moon be already rise . presently it shine with splendid radiance over the earth , and poor Helga creep forth from the thicket in the wretch frog 's shape . she stand still beside the corpse of the priest and the carcase of the slay horse . she look at they with eye that appear to weep , and from the frog-mouth come forth a croaking like the voice of a child burst into tear . she lean first over the one , then over the other , bring water in she hollow hand , which have become larger and more capacious by the webbed skin , and pour it over they ; but dead they be , and dead they would remain , she at last understand . soon wild beast would come and tear they dead body ; but no , that must not be ! so she dig up the earth as well as she could , in the endeavor to prepare a grave for they . she have nothing to work with but a stake and she two hand encumber with the webbed skin that grow between the finger , and which be tear by the labor , so that the blood flow over they . at last she see that she endeavor would not succeed . then she bring water and wash the dead man 's face , and cover it with fresh green leaf ; she bring green bough and lay they upon he , scatter dead leaf in the space between . then she bring the heaviest stone she could carry and lay they over the dead body , stop up the interstice with moss . and now she think the grave-hill would be strong and secure . the night have pass away in this difficult work -- the sun break through the cloud , and beautiful Helga stand there in all she loveliness , with bleeding hand , and with the first tear flow that have ever bedew she maiden cheek . -lrb-B- Illustration : HELGA in the tree . aaaaa -rrb-B- aaa then in this transformation it seem as if two nature be strive within she . she whole frame tremble , and she look around , as if she have just awake from a troubled dream . then she run towards the slender tree , cling to it for support , and in another moment she have climb to the summit of the tree , and hold fast . there she sit like a startled squirrel , and remain the whole day long in the silent solitude of the wood , where everything be quiet , and , as they say , dead . butterfly flutter around in sport , and in the neighborhood be several ant-hills , each with its hundred of busy little occupant move briskly to and fro . in the air dance a number of gnat , swarm upon swarm , and host of buzz fly , lady-birds , gold beetle , and other little winged creature ; the worm creep forth from the damp ground , the mole come out ; but except these all be silent around -- silent , and , as people say , dead -- for they speak of thing as they understand they . no one notice Helga , but some flock of crow , that fly scream about the top of the tree on which she sit : the bird hop close up to she on the twig with pert curiosity ; but when the glance of she eye fall upon they , it be a signal for they flight . but they could not understand she -- nor , indeed , could she understand herself . when the evening twilight come on , and the sun be sink , the time of she transformation rouse she to fresh activity . she glide down from the tree , and as the last sunbeam vanish she stand in the wrinkle form of the frog , with the torn webbed skin on she hand ; but she eye now gleam with a splendor of beauty that have scarcely be theirs when she wear she garb of loveliness , for they be a pair of pure , pious , maidenly eye that shine out of the frog-face . they bear witness of depth of feeling , of the gentle human heart ; and the beauteous eye overflow in tear , weep precious drop that lighten the heart . on the sepulchral mound she have raise there yet lay the cross of bough , the last work of he who sleep beneath . Helga lift up the cross , in pursuance of a sudden thought that come upon she . she plant it upon the burial mound , over the priest and the dead horse . the sorrowful remembrance of he call fresh tear into she eye ; and in this tender frame of mind she mark the same sign in the sand around the grave ; and as she write the sign with both she hand , the webbed skin fall from they like a torn glove ; and when she wash she hand in the woodland spring , and gaze in wonder at they snowy whiteness , she again make the holy sign in the air between herself and the dead man ; then she lip tremble , the holy name that have be preach to she during the ride from the forest come to she mouth , and she pronounce it audibly . then the frog-skin fall from she , and she be once more the beauteous maiden . but she head sink wearily , she tired limb require rest , and she fall into a deep slumber . she sleep , however , be short . towards midnight she awake . before she stand the dead horse , beam and full of life , which gleam forth from he eye and from he wounded neck ; close beside the creature stand the murder Christian priest , `` more beautiful than Bulder , '' the Viking woman would have say ; and yet he seem to stand in a flame of fire . such gravity , such a air of justice , such a pierce look shone out of he great mild eye , that they glance seem to penetrate every corner of she heart . beautiful Helga tremble at the look , and she remembrance awake as though she stand before the tribunal of judgment . -lrb-B- Illustration : HELGA be TAKEN BACK to the MARSH . aaaaa -rrb-B- aaa every good deed that have be do for she , every loving word that have be speak , seem endow with life : she understand that it have be love that keep she here during the day of trial , during which the creature form of dust and spirit , soul and earth , combat and struggle ; she acknowledge that she have only follow the lead of temper , and have do nothing for herself ; everything have be give she , everything have happen as it be by the interposition of Providence . she bow herself humbly , confess she own deep imperfection in the presence of the power that can read every thought of the heart -- and then the priest speak . `` Thou daughter of the moorland , '' he say , `` out of the earth , out of the moor , thou camest ; but from the earth thou shalt arise . I come from the land of the dead . Thou , too , shalt pass through the deep valley into the beam mountain region , where dwell mercy and completeness . I can not lead thee to Hedeby , that thou mayest receive christian baptism ; for , first , thou must burst the veil of water over the deep moorland , and draw forth the living source of thy be and of thy birth ; thou must exercise thy faculty in deed before the consecration can be give thee . '' and he lift she upon the horse , and give she a golden censer similar to the one she have see in the Viking 's castle . the open wound in the forehead of the slay Christian shone like a diadem . he take the cross from the grave and hold it aloft . and now they ride through the air , over the rustling wood , over the hill where the old hero lay bury , each on he dead war-horse ; and the iron figure rise up and gallopp forth , and station themselves on the summit of the hill . the golden hoop on the forehead of each gleam in the moonlight , and they mantle float in the night breeze . the dragon that guard bury treasure likewise lift up he head and gaze after the rider . the gnome and wood-spirits peep forth from beneath the hill and from between the furrow of the field , and flit to and fro with red , blue , and green torch , like the spark in the ash of a burnt paper . over woodland and heath , over river and marsh they flee away , up to the wild moor ; and over this they hover in wide circle . the Christian priest hold the cross aloft ; it gleam like gold ; and from he lip drop pious prayer . beautiful Helga join in the hymn he sing , like a child join in its mother 's song . she swing the censer , and a wondrous fragrance of incense stream forth thence , so that the reed and grass of the moor burst forth into blossom . every germ come forth from the deep ground . all that have life lift itself up . a veil of water-lilies spread itself forth like a carpet of work flower , and upon this carpet lay a sleep woman , young and beautiful . Helga think it be she own likeness she see upon the mirror of the calm water . but it be she mother whom she behold , the moor king 's wife , the princess from the bank of the Nile . the dead priest command that the slumbering woman should be lift upon the horse ; but the horse sink under the burden , as though its body have be a cloth fluttering in the wind . but the holy sign give strength to the airy phantom , and then the three ride from the moor to the firm land . -lrb-B- Illustration : HELGA meet with HER MOTHER in the MARSH . aaaaa -rrb-B- aaa then the cock crow in the Viking 's castle , and the phantom shape dissolve and float away in air ; but mother and daughter stand opposite each other . `` be I really look at my own image from beneath the deep water ? '' ask the mother . `` be it myself that I see reflect on the clear mirror ? '' exclaim the daughter . and they approach one another , and embrace . the heart of the mother beat quickest , and she understand the quicken pulse . `` my child ! thou flower of my own heart ! my lotos-flower of the deep water ! '' and she embrace she child anew , and weep ; and the tear be as a new baptism of life and love to Helga . `` in the swan 's plumage come I hither , '' say the mother ; `` and here also I throw off my dress of feather . I sink through the shake moorland , far down into the black slime , which close like a wall around I . but soon I feel a fresher stream ; a power draw I down , deeper and ever deeper . I feel the weight of sleep upon my eyelid ; I slumber , and dream hover round I . it seem to I that I be again in the pyramid in Egypt , and yet the wave willow trunk that have frighten I up in the moor be ever before I . I look at the cleft and wrinkle in the stem , and they shine forth in color , and take the form of hieroglyphic : it be the case of the mummy at which I be gaze ; at last the case burst , and forth step the thousand-year-old king , the mummied form , black as pitch , shine black as the wood-snail or the fat mud of the swamp ; whether it be the marsh king or the mummy of the pyramid I know not . he seize I in he arm , and I feel as if I must die . when I return to consciousness a little bird be sit on my bosom , beat with its wing , and twitter and sing . the bird fly away from I up towards the heavy , dark covering ; but a long green band still fasten he to I . I hear and understand he longing tone : ` freedom ! sunlight ! to my father ! ' then I think of my father and the sunny land of my birth , my life , and my love ; and I loosen the band and let the bird soar away home to the father . since that hour I have dream no more . I have sleep a sleep , a long and heavy sleep , till within this hour ; harmony and incense awake I and set I free . '' the green band from the heart of the mother to the bird 's wing , where do it flutter now ? whither have it be waft ? only the stork have see it . the band be the green stalk , the bow at the end , the beauteous flower , the cradle of the child that have now bloom into beauty , and be once more resting on its mother 's heart . and while the two be lock in each other 's embrace , the old stork fly around they in smaller and smaller circle , and at length shot away in swift flight towards he nest , whence he bring out the swan-feather suit he have preserve there for year , throw one to each of they , and the feather close around they , so that they soar up from the earth in the semblance of two white swan . `` and now we will speak with one another , '' quoth stork-papa , `` now we understand each other , though the beak of one bird be differently shape from that of another . it happen more than fortunately that you come to-night . to-morrow we should have be go -- mother , myself , and the young one ; for we be fly southward . Yes , only look at I ! I be a old friend from the land of the Nile , and mother have a heart larger than she beak . she always declare the princess would find a way to help herself ; and I and the young one carry the swan 's feather up here . but how glad I be ! and how fortunate that I be here still ! at dawn of day we shall move hence , a great company of stork . we 'll fly first , and do you follow we ; thus you can not miss you way ; moreover , I and the youngster will keep a sharp eye upon you . '' `` and the lotos-flower which I be to bring with I , '' say the egyptian princess , `` she be fly by my side in the swan 's plumage ! I bring with I the flower of my heart ; and thus the riddle have be read . Homeward ! homeward ! '' but Helga declare she could not quit the danish land before she have once more see she foster-mother , the affectionate Viking woman . every beautiful recollection , every kind word , every tear that she foster-mother have weep for she , rise up in she memory , and in that moment she almost feel as if she love the Viking woman best of all . `` yes , we must go to the Viking 's castle , '' say stork-papa ; `` mother and the youngster be wait for we there . how they will turn up they eye and flap they wing ! yes , you see mother do not speak much -- she be short and dry , but she mean all the better . I 'll begin clap at once , that they may know we be come . '' and stork-papa clap in first-rate style , and they all fly away towards the Viking 's castle . in the castle every one be sink in deep sleep . the Viking 's wife have not retire to rest until it be late . she be anxious about Helga , who have vanish with a christian priest three day before : she know Helga must have assist he in he flight , for it be the girl 's horse that have be miss from the stable ; but how all this have be effect be a mystery to she . the Viking woman have hear of the miracle tell of the Christian priest , and which be say to be work by he and by those who believe in he word and follow he . she passing thought form themselves into a dream , and it seem to she that she be still lie awake on she couch , and that deep darkness reign without . the storm draw near : she hear the sea roaring and roll to the east and to the west , like the wave of the North Sea and the Cattegat . the immense snake which be believe to surround the span of the earth in the depths of the ocean be tremble in convulsion ; she dream that the night of the fall of the god have come -- Ragnarok , as the heathen call the last day , when everything be to pass away , even the great god themselves . the war-trumpet sound , and the god ride over the rainbow , clothe in steel , to fight the last battle . the wing Valkyrs ride before they , and the dead warrior close the train . the whole firmament be ablaze with northern light , and yet the darkness seem to predominate . it be a terrible hour . and close by the terrify Viking woman Helga seem to be crouch on the floor in the hideous frog form , tremble and press close to she foster-mother , who take she on she lap and embrace she affectionately , hideous though she be . the air resound with the blow of club and sword , and with the hissing of arrow , as if a hailstorm be pass across it . the hour be come when earth and sky be to burst , the star to fall , and all thing to be swallow up in Surtur 's sea of fire ; but she know that there would be a new heaven and a new earth , that the corn field then would wave where now the ocean roll over the desolate tract of sand , and that the unutterable God would reign ; and up to he rise Bulder the gentle , the affectionate , deliver from the kingdom of the dead ; he come ; the Viking woman see he , and recognize he countenance ; it be that of the captive christian priest . `` White Christian ! '' she cry aloud , and with these word she press a kiss upon the forehead of the hideous frog-child . then the frog-skin fall off , and Helga stand reveal in all she beauty , lovely and gentle as she have never appear , and with beam eye . she kiss she foster-mother 's hand , bless she for all the care and affection lavish during the day of bitterness and trial , for the thought she have awaken and cherish in she , for name the name , which she repeat , `` White Christian ; '' and beauteous Helga arise in the form of a mighty swan , and spread she white wing with a rush like the sound of a troop of bird of passage wing they way through the air . the Viking woman wake ; and she hear the same noise without still continue . she know it be the time for the stork to depart , and that it must be those bird whose wing she hear . she wish to see they once more , and to bid they farewell as they set forth on they journey . therefore she rise from she couch and step out upon the threshold , and on the top of the gable she see stork range behind stork , and around the castle , over the high tree , fly band of stork wheeling in wide circle ; but opposite the threshold where she stand , by the well where Helga have often sit and alarm she with she wildness , sit two white swan gaze at she with intelligent eye . and she remember she dream , which still fill she soul as if it be reality . she think of Helga in the shape of a swan , and of the Christian priest ; and suddenly she feel she heart rejoice within she . -lrb-B- illustration : the DISGUISED PRINCESSES BID FAREWELL to the viking woman . aaaaa -rrb-B- aaa the swan flap they wing and arch they neck , as if they would send she a greet , and the Viking 's wife spread out she arm towards they , as if she feel all this ; and smile through she tear , and then stand sink in deep thought . then all the stork arise , flap they wing and clap with they beak , to start on they voyage towards the South . `` we will not wait for the swan , '' say stork-mamma : `` if they want to go with we they have better come . we can not sit here till the plover start . it be a fine thing , after all , to travel in this way , in family , not like the finch and partridge , where the male and female bird fly in separate body , which appear to I a very unbecoming thing . what be yonder swan flap they wing for ? '' `` well , everyone fly in he own fashion , '' say stork-papa : `` the swan in a oblique line , the crane in a triangle , and the plover in a snake 's line . '' `` do not talk about snake while we be fly up here , '' say stork-mamma . `` it only put idea into the child 's head which can not be gratify . '' `` be those the high mountain of which I hear tell ? '' ask Helga , in the swan 's plumage . `` they be storm cloud drive on beneath we , '' reply she mother . `` what be yonder white cloud that rise so high ? '' ask Helga again . `` those be the mountain cover with perpetual snow which you see yonder , '' reply she mother . and they fly across the lofty Alps towards the blue Mediterranean . `` Africa 's land ! Egypt 's strand ! '' sing , rejoicingly , in she swan 's plumage , the daughter of the Nile , as from the lofty air she see she native land loom in the form of a yellowish wavy stripe of shore . and all the bird catch sight of it , and hasten they flight . `` I can scent the Nile mud and wet frog , '' say stork-mamma ; `` I begin to feel quite hungry . Yes ; now you shall taste something nice ; and you will see the maraboo bird , the crane , and the ibis . they all belong to we family , though they be not nearly so beautiful as we . they give themselves great air , especially the ibis . he have be quite spoil by the EgyptiansS , for they make a mummy of he and stuff he with spice . I would rather be stuff with live frog , and so would you , and so you shall . Better have something in one 's inside while one be alive than to be make a fuss with after one be dead . that be my opinion , and I be always right . '' `` now the stork be come , '' say the people in the rich house on the bank of the Nile , where the royal lord lay in the open hall on the downy cushion , cover with a leopard skin , not alive and yet not dead , but wait and hope for the lotos-flower from the deep moorland , in the far north . friend and servant stand around he couch . -lrb-B- illustration : the king of EGYPT 's recovery . aaaaa -rrb-B- aaa and into the hall fly two beauteous swan . they have come with the stork . they throw off they dazzling white plumage , and two lovely female form be reveal , as like each other as two dewdrop . they bent over the old , pale , sick man , they put back they long hair , and while Helga bent over she grandfather , he white cheek redden , he eye brighten , and life come back to he waste limb . the old man rise up cheerful and well ; and daughter and granddaughter embrace he joyfully , as if they be give he a morning greet after a long heavy dream . and joy reign through the whole house , and likewise in the stork 's nest , though there the chief cause be certainly the good food , especially the numberless frog , which seem to spring up in heap out of the ground ; and while the learn man write down hastily , in fly character , a sketch of the history of the two princess , and of the flower of health that have be a source of joy for the home and the land , the stork pair tell the story to they family in they own fashion , but not till all have eat they fill , otherwise the youngster would have find something more interesting to do than to listen to story . `` now , at last , you will become something , '' whisper stork-mamma , `` there be no doubt about that . '' `` what should I become ? '' ask stork-papa . `` what have I do ? nothing at all ! '' `` you have do more than the rest ! but for you and the youngster the two princess would never have see Egypt again , or have effect the old man 's cure . you will turn out something ! they must certainly give you a doctor 's degree , and we youngster will inherit it , and so will they child after they , and so on . you already look like a egyptian doctor ; at least in my eye . '' `` I can not quite repeat the word as they be speak , '' say stork-papa , who have listen from the roof to the report of these event , make by the learn man , and be now tell it again to he own family . `` what they say be so confused , it be so wise and learn , that they immediately receive rank and present -- even the head cook receive a especial mark of distinction -- probably for the soup . '' `` and what do you receive ? '' asked stork-mamma . `` surely they ought not to forget the most important person of all , and you be certainly he ! the learn man have do nothing throughout the whole affair but use they tongue ; but you will doubtless receive what be due to you . '' late in the night , when the gentle peace of sleep rest upon the now happy house , there be one who still watch . it be not stork-papa , though he stand upon one leg , and sleep on guard -- it be Helga who watch . she bow herself forward over the balcony , and look into the clear air , gaze at the great gleaming star , greater and purer in they lustre than she have ever see they in the North , and yet the same orb . she think of the Viking woman in the wild moorland , of the gentle eye of she foster-mother , and of the tear which the kind soul have weep over the poor frog-child that now live in splendor under the gleaming star , in the beauteous spring air on the bank of the Nile . she think of the love that dwelt in the breast of the heathen woman , the love that have be show to a wretched creature , hateful in human form , and hideous in its transformation . she look at the gleaming star , and thought of the glory that have shine upon the forehead of the dead man , when she fly with he through the forest and across the moorland ; sound pass through she memory , word she have hear pronounced as they ride onward , and when she be bear wonder and tremble through the air , word from the great Fountain of love that embrace all human kind . yes , great thing have be achieve and win ! Day and night beautiful Helga be absorb in the contemplation of the great sum of she happiness , and stand in the contemplation of it like a child that turn hurriedly from the giver to gaze on the splendor of the gift it have receive . she seem to lose herself in the increase happiness , in contemplation of what might come , of what would come . have she not be bear by miracle to greater and greater bliss ? and in this idea she one day lose herself so completely , that she think no more of the Giver . it be the exuberance of youthful courage , unfold its wing for a bold flight ! she eye be gleam with courage , when suddenly a loud noise in the courtyard below recall she thought from they wander flight . there she see two great ostrich run round rapidly in a narrow circle . never before have she see such creature -- great clumsy thing they be , with wing that look as if they have be clip , and the bird themselves look as if they have suffer violence of some kind ; and now for the first time she hear the legend which the EgyptiansS tell of the ostrich . once , they say , the ostrich be a beautiful , glorious race of bird , with strong large wing ; and one evening the larger bird of the forest say to the ostrich , `` Brother , shall we fly to-morrow , _ God willing _ , to the river to drink ? '' and the ostrich answer , `` I will . '' at daybreak , accordingly , they wing they flight from thence , fly first up on high , towards the sun , that gleam like the eye of God -- higher and higher , the ostrich far in advance of all the other bird . proudly the ostrich fly straight towards the light , boasting of he strength , and not think of the Giver or say , `` God willing ! '' then suddenly the avenge angel draw aside the veil from the flaming ocean of sunlight , and in a moment the wing of the proud bird be scorch and shrivel up , and he sink miserably to the ground . since that time , the ostrich have never again be able to raise himself in the air , but flee timidly along the ground , and run round in a narrow circle . and this be a warning for we man , that in all we thought and scheme , in all we doings and device , we should say , `` God willing . '' and Helga bow she head thoughtfully and gravely , and look at the circling ostrich , notice its timid fear , and its stupid pleasure at sight of its own great shadow cast upon the white sunlit wall . and seriousness strike its root deep into she mind and heart . a rich life in present and future happiness be give and win ; and what be yet to come ? the best of all , '' _ God willing _ . '' in early spring , when the stork fly again towards the North , beautiful Helga take off she golden bracelet , and scratch she name upon it ; and beckon to the stork-father , she place the golden hoop around he neck , and beg he to deliver it to the Viking woman , so that the latter might see that she adopt daughter be well , and have not forget she . `` that be heavy to carry , '' think the stork-papa , when he have the golden ring round he neck ; `` but gold and honor be not to be fling into the street . the stork bring good fortune ; they 'll be oblige to acknowledge that over yonder . '' `` you lay gold and I lay egg , '' say the stork-mamma . `` but with you it be only once in a way , whereas I lay egg every year ; but neither of we be appreciate -- that be very dishearten . '' `` still one have one 's inward consciousness , mother , '' reply stork-papa . `` but you can not hang that round you neck , '' stork-mamma retort ; `` and it will not give you a good wind or a good meal . '' the little nightingale , sing yonder in the tamarind tree , will soon be go north too . Helga the fair have often hear the sweet bird sing up yonder by the wild moor ; now she want to give it a message to carry , for she have learn the language of bird when she fly in the swan 's plumage ; she have often converse with stork and with swallow , and she know the nightingale would understand she . so she beg the little bird to fly to the beech wood , on the peninsula of Jutland , where the grave-hill have be rear with stone and branch , and beg the nightingale to persuade all other little bird that they might build they nest around the place , so that the song of bird should resound over that sepulchre for evermore . and the nightingale fly away -- and time fly away . -lrb-B- illustration : a MESSAGE to the viking woman . aaaaa -rrb-B- aaa in autumn the eagle stand upon the pyramid and see a stately train of richly laden camel approach , and richly attire armed man on foam arab steed , shine white as silver , with pink tremble nostril , and great thick mane hang down almost over they slender leg . wealthy guest , a royal prince of Arabia , handsome as a prince should be , come into the proud mansion on whose roof the stork 's nest now stand empty : those who have inhabit the nest be away now , in the far north ; but they would soon return . and , indeed , they return on that very day that be so rich in joy and gladness . here a marriage be celebrate , and fair Helga be the bride , shine in jewel and silk . the bridegroom be the young arab prince , and bride and bridegroom sit together at the upper end of the table , between mother and grandfather . but she gaze be not fix upon the bridegroom , with he manly sun-browned cheek , round which a black beard curl ; she gaze not at he dark fiery eye that be fix upon she -- but far away at a gleaming star that shine down from the sky . then strong wing be hear beat the air . the stork be come home , and however tire the old stork pair might be from the journey , and however much they need repose , they do not fail to come down at once to the balustrade of the verandah ; for they know what feast be be celebrate . already on the frontier of the land they have hear that Helga have cause they figure to be paint on the wall -- for do they not belong to she history ? `` that be very pretty and suggestive , '' say stork-papa . `` but it be very little , '' observe stork-mamma . `` they could not possibly have do less . '' and when Helga see they , she rise and come on to the verandah , to stroke the back of the stork . the old pair wave they head and bow they neck , and even the youngest among the young one feel highly honor by the reception . and Helga look up to the gleaming star , which seem to glow purer and purer ; and between the star and herself there float a form , purer than the air , and visible through it : it float quite close to she . it be the spirit of the dead christian priest ; he too be come to she wedding feast -- come from heaven . `` the glory and brightness yonder outshine everything that be know on earth ! '' he say . and fair Helga beg so fervently , so beseechingly , as she have never yet pray , that it might be permit she to gaze in there for one single moment , that she might be allow to cast but a single glance into the brightness that beam in the kingdom . then he bear she up amid splendor and glory . not only around she , but within she , sound voice and beam a brightness that word can not express . `` now we must go back ; thou wilt be miss , '' he say . `` only one more look ! '' she beg . `` but one short minute more ! '' `` we must go back to the earth . the guest will all depart . '' `` only one more look -- the last . '' and Helga stand again in the verandah ; but the marriage light without have vanish , and the lamp in the hall be extinguish , and the stork be go -- nowhere a guest to be see -- no bridegroom -- all seem to have be sweep away in those few short minute ! then a great dread come upon she . alone she go through the empty great hall into the next chamber . strange warrior sleep yonder . she open a side door which lead into she own chamber ; and , as she think to step in there , she suddenly find herself in the garden ; but yet it have not look thus here before -- the sky gleam red -- the morning dawn be come . three minute only in heaven and a whole night on earth have pass away ! then she see the stork again . she call to they , speak they language ; and stork-papa turn he head towards she , listen to she word , and draw near . `` you speak we language , '' he say ; `` what do you wish ? why do you appear here -- you , a strange woman ? '' `` it be I -- it be Helga -- dost thou not know I ? three minute ago we be speak together yonder in the verandah ! '' `` that be a mistake , '' say the stork ; `` you must have dream all that ! '' `` no , no ! '' she persist . and she remind he of the Viking 's castle , and of the great ocean , and of the journey hither . then stork-papa wink with he eye , and say : `` why , that be a old story , which I hear from the time of my great-grandfather . there certainly be here in Egypt a princess of that kind from the danish land , but she vanish on the evening of she wedding-day , many hundred year ago , and never come back ! you may read about it yourself yonder on the monument in the garden ; there you 'll find swan and stork sculpture , and at the top you be yourself in white marble ! '' and thus it be . Helga see it , and understand it , and sink on she knee . the sun burst forth in glory ; and as , in time of yore , the frog-shape have vanish in its beam , and the beautiful form have stand display , so now in the light a beauteous form , clearer , purer than air -- a beam of brightness -- fly up into heaven ! the body crumble to dust ; and a fade lotos-flower lay on the spot where Helga have stand . `` well , that be a new end to the story , '' say stork-papa . `` I have certainly not expect it . but I like it very well . '' `` but what will the young one say to it ? '' say stork-mamma . `` yes , certainly , that be the important point , '' reply he .