the white hare and the CROCODILES Japanese Writer Long , long ago . when all the animal could talk , there live in the province of Inaba in Japan , a little white hare . he home be on the island of Oki , and just across the sea be the mainland of Inaba . now the hare want very much to cross over to Inaba . Day after day he would go out and sit on the shore and look longingly over the water in the direction of Inaba . and day after day he hope to find some way of get across . one day as usual , the hare be stand on the beach , look towards the mainland across the water , when he see a great crocodile swimming near the island . `` this be very lucky ! '' think the hare . `` now I shall be able to get my wish . I will ask the crocodile to carry I across the sea ! '' but he be doubtful whether the crocodile would consent to do what want . so he think instead of ask a favor he would try to get what he want by a trick . so with a loud voice he call to the crocodile , and say : `` oh , Mr. Crocodile , be not it a lovely day ? '' the crocodile , who have come out all by itself that day to enjoy the bright sunshine , be just begin to feel a bit lonely when the hare 's cheerful greet break the silence . the crocodile swam nearer the shore , very pleased to hear some one speak . `` I wonder who it be that speak to I just now ! be it you , Mr. Hare ? you must be very lonely all by yourself ! '' `` oh , no , I be not at all lonely , '' say the hare , `` but as it be such a fine day I come out here to enjoy myself . Wo not you stop and play with I a little while ? '' the crocodile come out of the sea and sit on the shore , and the two play together for some time . then the hare say : `` Mr. Crocodile , you live in the sea and I live on this island , and we do not often meet , so I know very little about you . tell I , do you think the number of you company be greater than mine ? '' `` of course , there be more crocodile than hare , '' answer the crocodile . `` can you not see that for yourself ? you live on this small island , while I live in the sea , which spread through all part of the world , so if I call together all the crocodile who dwell in the sea you hare will be as nothing compare to we ! '' the crocodile be very conceit . the hare , who mean to play a trick on the crocodile , say : `` do you think it possible for you to call up enough crocodile to form a line from this island across the sea to Inaba ? '' the crocodile thought for a moment and then answer : `` of course , it be possible . '' `` then do try , '' say the artful hare , `` and I will count the number from here ! '' the crocodile , who be very simple-minded , and who have not the least idea that the hare intend to play a trick on he , agree to do what the hare ask , and say : `` wait a little while I go back into the sea and call my company together ! '' the crocodile plunge into the sea and be go for some time . the hare , meanwhile , wait patiently on the shore . at last the crocodile appear , bring with he a large number of other crocodile . `` look , Mr. Hare ! '' say the crocodile , `` it be nothing for my friend to form a line between here and Inaba . there be enough crocodile to stretch from here even as far as China or India . do you ever see so many crocodile ? '' then the whole company of crocodile arrange themselves in the water so as to form a bridge between the Island of Oki and the mainland of Inaba . when the hare see the bridge of crocodile , he say : `` how splendid ! I do not believe this be possible . now let I count you all ! to do this , however , with you permission , I must walk over on you back to the other side , so please be so good as not to move , or else I shall fall into the sea and be drown ! '' so the hare hop off the island on to the strange bridge of crocodile , count as he jump from one crocodile 's back to the other : `` please keep quite still , or I shall not be able to count . one , two , three , four , five , six . seven , eight , nine -- '' thus the cunning hare walk right across to the mainland of Inaba . not content with get he wish , he begin to jeer at the crocodile instead of thank they , and say , as he leap off the last one 's back : `` oh ! you stupid crocodile , now I have do with you ! '' and he be just about to run away as fast as he could . but he do not escape so easily , for so soon as the crocodile understand that this be a trick play upon they by the hare so as to enable he to cross the sea , and that the hare be now laugh at they for they stupidity , they become furiously angry and make up they mind to take revenge . so some of they run after the hare and catch he . then they all surround the poop little animal and pull out all he fur . he cry out loudly and entreat they to spare he , but with each tuft of fur they pull out they say : `` serve you right ! '' when the crocodile have pull out the last bit of fur , they throw the poor hare on the beach , and all swim away laugh at what they have do . the hare be now in a pitiful plight , all he beautiful white fur have be pull out , and he bare little body be quiver with pain and bleeding all over . he could hardly move , and all he could do be to lie on the beach quite helpless and weep over the misfortune that have befall he . notwithstanding that it be he own fault that have bring all this misery and suffering upon the white hare of Inaba , any one see the poor little creature could not help feel sorry for he in he sad condition , for the crocodile have be very cruel in they revenge . just at this time a number of man , who look like King 's son , happen to pass by , and see the hare lie on the beach cry , stop and ask what be the matter . the hare lift up he head from between he paw , and answer they , say : `` I have a fight with some crocodile , but I be beat , and they pull out all my fur and leave I to suffer here -- that be why I be cry . '' now one of these young man have a bad and spiteful disposition . but he feign kindness , and say to the hare : `` I feel very sorry for you . if you will only try it , I know of a remedy which will cure you sore body . go and bathe yourself in the sea , and then come and sit in the wind . this will make you fur grow again , and you will be just as you be before . '' then all the young man pass on . the hare be very pleased , think that he have find a cure . he go and bath in the sea and then come out and sit where the wind could blow upon he . but as the wind blow and dry he , he skin become draw and harden , and the salt increase the pain so much that he roll on the sand in he agony and cry aloud . just then another King 's son pass by , carry a great bag on he back . he see the hare , and stop and ask why he be cry so loudly . but the poor hare , remember that he have be deceive by one very like the man who now speak to he , do not answer , but continue to cry . but this man have a kind heart , and look at the hare very pityingly , and say : `` you poor thing ! I see that you fur be all pull out and that you skin be quite bare . who can have treat you so cruelly ? '' when the hare hear these kind word he feel very grateful to the man , and encourage by he gentle manner the hare tell he all that have befall he . the little animal hide nothing from he friend , but tell he frankly how he have play a trick on the crocodile and how he have come across the bridge they have make , think that he wish to count they number : how he have jeer at they for they stupidity , and then how the crocodile have revenge themselves on he . then he go on to say how he have be deceive by a party of man who look very like he kind friend : and the hare end he long tale of woe by beg the man to give he some medicine that would cure he and make he fur grow again . when the hare have finish he story , the man be full of pity towards he , and say : `` I be very sorry for all you have suffer , but remember , it be only the consequence of the deceit you practice on the crocodile . '' `` I know , '' answer the sorrowful hare , `` but I have repent and make up my mind never to use deceit again , so I beg you to show I how I may cure my sore body and make the fur grow again . '' `` then I will tell you of a good remedy , '' say the man . `` first go and bathe well in that pond over there and try to wash all the salt from you body . then pick some of those kaba flower that be grow near the edge of the water , spread they on the ground and roll yourself on they . if you do this the pollen will cause you fur to grow again , and you will be quite well in a little while . '' the hare be very glad to be tell what to do , so kindly . he crawl to the pond point out to he , bath well in it , and then pick the kaba flower grow near the water , and roll himself on they . to he amazement , even while he be do this , he see he nice white fur grow again , the pain cease , and he feel just as he have do before all he misfortune . the hare be overjoy at he quick recovery , and go hop joyfully towards the young man who have so help he , and kneel down at he foot , say : `` I can not express my thanks for all you have do for I ! it be my earnest wish to do something for you in return . please tell I who you be ? '' `` I be no King 's son as you think I . I be a fairy , and my name be Okuni-nushi-no-Mikoto , '' answer the man , `` and those being who pass here before I be my brother . they have hear of a beautiful Princess call Yakami who live in this province of Inaba , and they be on they way to find she and to ask she to marry one of they . but on this expedition I be only a attendant , so I be walk behind they with this great big bag on my back . '' the hare humble himself before this great fairy okuni-nushi-no - Mikoto , whom many in that part of the land worship as a god . `` oh , I do not know that you be Okuni-nushi-no-Mikoto . how kind you have be to I ! it be impossible to believe that that unkind fellow who send I to bathe in the sea be one of you brother . I be quite sure that the Princess , whom you brother have go to seek , will refuse to be the bride of any of they , and will prefer you for you goodness of heart . I be quite sure that you will win she heart without intend to do so , and she will ask to be you bride . '' Okuni-nushi-no-Mikoto take no notice of what the hare say , but bid the little animal goodby , go on he way quickly and soon overtake he brother . he find they just enter the Princess 's gate . just as the hare have say , the Princess could not be persuade to become the bride of any of the brother , but when she look at the kind brother 's face she go straight up to he and say : `` to you I give myself , '' and so they be marry . this be the end of the story . Okuni-nushi-no-Mikoto be worship by the people in some part of Japan , as a god , and the hare have become famous as `` the White Hare of Inaba . '' but what become of the crocodile nobody know .