the story of PRINCE YAMATO TAKE . Japanese Writer the insignia of the great japanese Empire be compose of three treasure which have be consider sacred , and guard with jealous care from time immemorial . these be the Yatano-no-Kagami or the Mirror of Yata , the Yasakami-no-Magatama or the Jewel of Yasakami , and the Murakumo-no-Tsurugi or the sword of Murakumo . of these three treasure of the Empire , the sword of Murakumo , afterwards know as Kusanagi-no-Tsrugugi , or the grass-cleaving sword , be consider the most precious and most highly to be honor , for it be the symbol of strength to this nation of warrior and the talisman of invincibility for the Emperor , while he hold it sacred in the shrine of he ancestor . nearly two thousand year ago this sword be keep at the shrine of Ite , the temple dedicate to the worship of Amaterasu , the great and beautiful Sun Goddess from whom the japanese emperor be say to be descend . there be a story of knightly adventure and daring which explain why the name of the sword be change from that of Murakumo to Kasanagi , which mean grass clearing . once , many , many year ago , there be bear a son to the Emperor Keiko , the twelfth in descent from the great Jimmu , the founder of the japanese dynasty . this Prince be the second son of the Emperor Keiko , and he be name Yamato . from he childhood he prove himself to be of remarkable strength , wisdom and courage , and he father notice with pride that he give promise of great thing , and he love he even more than he do he elder son . now when Prince Yamato have grow to manhood -lrb-B- in the olden day of japanese history , a boy be consider to have reach man 's estate at the early age of sixteen -rrb-B- the realm be much trouble by a band of outlaw whose chief be two brother , Kumaso and Takeru . these rebel seem to delight in rebel against the King , in break the law and defy all authority . at last King Keiko order he younger son Prince Yamato to subdue the brigand and , if possible , to rid the land of they evil life . Prince Yamato be only sixteen year of age , he have but reach he manhood accord to the law , yet though he be such a youth in year he possess the dauntless spirit of a warrior of fuller age and know not what fear be . even then there be no man who could rival he for courage and bold deed , and he receive he father 's command with great joy . he at once make ready to start , and great be the stir in the precinct of the Palace as he and he trusty follower gather together and prepare for the expedition , and polish up they armor and don it . before he leave he father 's court he go to pray at the shrine of Ise and to take leave of he aunt the Princess Yamato , for he heart be somewhat heavy at the thought of the danger he have to face , and he feel that he need the protection of he ancestress , Amaterasu , the Sun Goddess . the Princess he aunt come out to give he glad welcome , and congratulate he on be trust with so great a mission by he father the King . she then give he one of she gorgeous robe as a keepsake to go with he and to bring he good luck , say that it would surely be of service to he on this adventure . she then wish he all success in he undertaking and bid he good speed . the young Prince bow low before he aunt , and receive she gracious gift with much pleasure and many respectful bow . `` I will now set out , '' say the Prince , and return to the Palace he put himself at the head of he troops . thus cheer by he aunt 's blessing , he feel ready for all that might befall , and march through the land he go down to the Southern Island of Kiushiu , the home of the brigand . before many day have pass he reach the Southern Island , and then slowly but surely make he way to the head-quarters of the chief Kumaso and Takeru . he now meet with great difficulty , for he find the country exceedingly wild and rough . the mountain be high and steep , the valley dark and deep , and huge tree and bowlder of rock block up the road and stop the progress of he army . it be all but impossible to go on . though the Prince be but a youth he have the wisdom of year , and , see that it be vain to try and lead he man further , he say to himself : `` to attempt to fight a battle in this impassable country unknown to my man only make my task harder . we can not clear the road and fight as well . it be wiser for I to resort to stratagem and come upon my enemy unaware . in that way I may be able to kill they without much exertion . '' so he now bid he army halt by the way . he wife , the Princess Ototachibana , have accompany he , and he bid she bring he the robe he aunt the priestess of Ise have give he , and to help he attire himself as a woman . with she help he put on the robe , and let he hair down till it flow over he shoulder . Ototachibana then bring he she comb , which he put in he black tress , and then adorn himself with string of strange jewel just as you see in the picture . when he have finish he unusual toilet , Ototachibana bring he she mirror . he smile as he gaze at himself -- the disguise be so perfect . he hardly know himself , so change be he . all trace of the warrior have disappear , and in the shine surface only a beautiful lady look back at he . thus completely disguise , he set out for the enemy 's camp alone . in the fold of he silk gown , next he strong heart , be hide a sharp dagger . the two chief Kumaso and Takeru wear sit in they tent , rest in the cool of the evening , when the Prince approach . they be talk of the news which have recently be carry to they , that the King 's son have enter they country with a large army determine to exterminate they band . they have both hear of the young warrior 's renown , and for the first time in they wicked life they feel afraid . in a pause in they talk they happen to look up , and see through the door of the tent a beautiful woman robe in sumptuous garment come towards they . like a apparition of loveliness she appear in the soft twilight . Little do they dream that it be they enemy whose come they so dread who now stand before they in this disguise . `` what a beautiful woman ! where have she come from ? '' say the astonished Kumaso , forget war and council and everything as he look at the gentle intruder . he beckon to the disguised Prince and bid he sit down and serve they with wine . Yamato take feel he heart swell with a fierce glee for he now know that he plan would succeed . however , he dissemble cleverly , and put on a sweet air of shyness he approach the rebel chief with slow step and eye glance like a frightened deer . charm to distraction by the girl 's loveliness Kumaso drank cup after cup of wine for the pleasure of see she pour it out for he , till at last he be quite overcome with the quantity he have drunk . this be the moment for which the brave Prince have be wait . fling down the wine jar , he seize the tipsy and astonished Kumaso and quickly stab he to death with the dagger which he have secretly carry hide in he breast . Takeru , the brigand 's brother , be terror-struck as soon as he see what be happen and try to escape , but Prince Yamato be too quick for he . Ere he could reach the tent door the Prince be at he heel , he garment be clutch by a hand of iron , and a dagger flash before he eye and he lay stab to the earth , die but not yet dead . `` wait one moment ! '' gasp the brigand painfully , and he seize the Prince 's hand . Yamato relax he hold somewhat and say . `` why should I pause , thou villain ? '' the brigand raise himself fearfully and say : `` tell I from whence you come , and whom I have the honor of address ? Hitherto I believe that my dead brother and I be the strongest man in the land , and that there be no one who could overcome we . alone you have venture into we stronghold , alone you have attack and kill we ! surely you be more than mortal ? '' then the young Prince answer with a proud smile : -- `` I be the son of the King and my name be Yamato , and I have be send by my father as the avenger of evil to bring death to all rebel ! no longer shall robbery and murder hold my people in terror ! '' and he hold the dagger drip red above the rebel 's head . `` ah , '' gasp the die man with a great effort , `` I have often hear of you . you be indeed a strong man to have so easily overcome we . allow I to give you a new name . from henceforth you shall be know as Yamato take . we title I bequeath to you as the bravest man in Yamato . '' and with these noble word , Takeru fall back and die . the Prince have thus successfully put a end to he father 's enemy in the world , be prepare to return to the capital . on the way back he pass through the province of Idum . here he meet with another outlaw name Idzumo Takeru who he know have do much harm in the land . he again resort to stratagem , and feign friendship with the rebel under a assumed name . have do this he make a sword of wood and jam it tightly in the shaft of he own strong sword . this he purposedly buckle to he side and wear on every occasion when he expect to meet the third robber Takeru , he now invite Takeru to the bank of the River Hinokawa , and persuade he to try a swim with he in the cool refreshing water of the river . as it be a hot summer 's day , the rebel be nothing loath to take a plunge in the river , while he enemy be still swim down the stream the Prince turn back and land with all possible haste . Unperceived , he manage to change sword , put he wooden one in place of the keen steel sword of Takeru . know nothing of this , the brigand come up to the bank shortly . as soon as he have land and don he clothes , the Prince come forward and ask he to cross sword with he to prove he skill , say : `` let we two prove which be the better swordsman of the two ! '' the robber agree with delight , feel certain of victory , for he be famous as a fencer in he province and he do not know who he adversary be . he seize quickly what he think be he sword and stand on guard to defend himself . Alas ! for the rebel the sword be the wooden one of the young Prince and in vain Takeru try to unsheathe it -- it be jam fast , not all he exert strength could move it . even if he effort have be successful the sword would have be of no use to he for it be of wood . Yamato take saw that he enemy be in he power , and swing high the sword he have take from Takeru he bring it down with great might and dexterity and cut off the robber 's head . in this way , sometimes by use he wisdom and sometimes by use he bodily strength , and at other time by resort to craftiness , which be as much esteem in those day as it be despise in these , he prevail against all the King 's foe one by one , and bring peace and rest to the land and the people . when he return to the capital the King praise he for he brave deed , and hold a feast in the Palace in honor of he safe come home and present he with many rare gift . from this time forth the King love he more than ever and would not let Yamato take go from he side , for he say that he son be now as precious to he as one of he arm . but the Prince be not allow to live a idle life long . when he be about thirty year old , news be bring that the Ainu race , the aborigine of the island of Japan , who have be conquer and push northward by the japanese , have rebel in the eastern province , and leave the vicinity which have be allot to they be cause great trouble in the land . the King decide that it be necessary to send a army to do battle with they and bring they to reason . but who be to lead the man ? Prince Yamato take at once offer to go and bring the newly arise rebel into subjection . now as the King love the Prince dearly , and could not bear to have he go out of he sight even for the length of one day , he be of course very loath to send he on he dangerous expedition . but in the whole army there be no warrior so strong or so brave as the Prince he son , so that he Majesty , unable to do otherwise , reluctantly comply with Yamato 's wish . when the time come for the Prince to start , the King give he a spear call the Eight-Arms-Length-Spear of the Holly Tree -lrb-B- the handle be probably make from the wood of the holly tree -rrb-B- , and order he to set out to subjugate the Eastern BarbariansS as the Ainu be then call . the Eight-Arms-Length-Spear of the Holly Tree of those old day , be prize by warrior just as much as the Standard or Banner be value by a regiment in these modern day , when give by the King to he soldier on the occasion of set out for war . the Prince respectfully and with great reverence receive the King 's spear , and leave the capital , march with he army to the East . on he way he visit first of all the temple of Ise for worship , and he aunt the Princess of Yamato and High PriestessS come out to greet he . she it be who have give he she robe which have prove such a boon to he before in help he to overcome and slay the brigand of the West . he tell she all that have happen to he , and of the great part she keepsake have play in the success of he previous undertaking , and thank she very heartily . when she hear that he be start out once again to do battle with he father 's enemy , she go into the temple , and reappear bear a sword and a beautiful bag which she have make herself , and which be full of flint , which in those time people use instead of match for make fire . these she present to he as a parting gift . the sword be the sword of Murakumo , one of the three sacred treasure which comprise the insignia of the Imperial House of Japan . no more auspicious talisman of luck and success could she have give she nephew , and she bid he use it in the hour of he greatest need . Yamato take now bade farewell to he aunt , and once more place himself at the head of he man he march to the farthest east through the province of Owari , and then he reach the province of Suruga . here the governor welcome the Prince right heartily and entertain he royally with many feast . when these be over , the governor tell he guest that he country be famous for its fine deer , and propose a deer hunt for the Prince 's amusement . the Prince be utterly deceive by the cordiality of he host , which be all feign , and gladly consent to join in the hunt . the governor then lead the Prince to a wild and extensive plain where the grass grow high and in great abundance . quite ignorant that the governor have lay a trap for he with the desire to compass he death , the Prince begin to ride hard and hunt down the deer , when all of a sudden to he amazement he see flame and smoke burst out from the bush in front of he . realize he danger he try to retreat , but no sooner do he turn he horse in the opposite direction than he see that even there the prairie be on fire . at the same time the grass on he left and right burst into flame , and these begin to spread swiftly towards he on all side . he look round for a chance of escape . there be none . he be surround by fire . `` this deer hunt be then only a cunning trick of the enemy ! '' say the Prince , look round on the flame and the smoke that crackle and roll in towards he on every side . `` what a fool I be to be lure into this trap like a wild beast ! '' and he grind he tooth with rage as he think of the governor 's smile treachery . dangerous as be he situation now , the Prince be not in the least confounded . in he dire extremity he remember the gift he aunt have give he when they part , and it seem to he as if she must , with prophetic foresight , have divine this hour of need . he coolly open the flint-bag that he aunt have give he and set fire to the grass near he . then draw the sword of Murakumo from its sheath he set to work to cut down the grass on either side of he with all speed . he determine to die , if that be necessary , fight for he life and not stand still wait for death to come to he . strange to say the wind begin to change and to blow from the opposite direction , and the fiercest portion of the burning bush which have hitherto threaten to come upon he be now blow right away from he , and the Prince , without even a scratch on he body or a single hair burn , live to tell the tale of he wonderful escape , while the wind rise to a gale overtook the governor , and he be burn to death in the flame he have set alight to kill Yamato take . now the Prince ascribe he escape entirely to the virtue of the sword of Murakumo , and to the protection of Amaterasu , the Sun Goddess of Ise , who control the wind and all the element and insure the safety of all who pray to she in the hour of danger . lift the precious sword he raise it above he head many time in token of he great respect , and as he do this he re-named it Kusanagi-no-Tsurugi or the Grass-Cleaving Sword , and the place where he set fire to the grass round he and escape from death in the burning prairie , he call Yaidzu . to this day there be a spot along the great Tokaido railway name Yaidzu , which be say to be the very place where this thrilling event take place . thus do the brave Prince Yamato take escape out of the snare lay for he by he enemy . he be full of resource and courage , and finally outwit and subdue all he foe . leave Yaidzu he march eastward , and come to the shore at Idzu from whence he wish to cross to Kadzusa . in these danger and adventure he have be follow by he faithful loving wife the Princess Ototachibana . for he sake she count the weariness of the long journey and the danger of war as nothing , and she love for she warrior husband be so great that she feel well repay for all she wanderings if she could but hand he he sword when he sally forth to battle , or minister to he want when he return weary to the camp . but the heart of the Prince be full of war and conquest and he care little for the faithful Ototachibana . from long exposure in travel , and from care and grief at she lord 's coldness to she , she beauty have fade , and she ivory skin be burnt brown by the sun , and the Prince tell she one day that she place be in the Palace behind the screen at home and not with he upon the warpath . but in spite of rebuff and indifference on she husband 's part , Ototachibana could not find it in she heart to leave he . but perhaps it would have be better for she if she have do so , for on the way to Idzu , when they come to Owari , she heart be well-nigh broken . here dwelt in a Palace shaded by pine-trees and approach by impose gate , the Princess Miyadzu , beautiful as the cherry blossom in the blush dawn of a spring morning . she garment be dainty and bright , and she skin be white as snow , for she have never know what it be to be weary along the path of duty or to walk in the heat of a summer 's sun . and the Prince be ashamed of he sunburnt wife in she travel-stained garment , and bid she remain behind while he go to visit the Princess Miyadzu . Day after day he spend hour in the garden and the Palace of he new friend , think only of he pleasure , and care little for he poor wife who remain behind to weep in the tent at the misery which have come into she life . yet she be so faithful a wife , and she character so patient , that she never allow a reproach to escape she lip , or a frown to mar the sweet sadness of she face , and she be ever ready with a smile to welcome she husband back or usher he forth wherever he go . at last the day come when the Prince Yamato take must depart for Idzu and cross over the sea to Kadzusa , and he bid he wife follow in he retinue as a attendant while he go to take a ceremonious farewell of the Princess Miyadzu . she come out to greet he dress in gorgeous robe , and she seem more beautiful than ever , and when Yamato take see she he forget he wife , he duty , and everything except the joy of the idle present , and swear that he would return to Owari and marry she when the war be over . and as he look up when he have say these word he meet the large almond eye of Ototachibana fix full upon he in unspeakable sadness and wonder , and he know that he have do wrong , hut he harden he heart and ride on , care little for the pain he have cause she . when they reach the seashore at Idzu he man seek for boat in which to cross the strait to Kadzusa , but it be difficult to find boat enough to allow all the soldier to embark . then the Prince stand on the beach , and in the pride of he strength he scoff and say : `` this be not the sea ! this be only a brook ! why do you man want so many boat ? I could jump this if I would . '' when at last they have all embark and be fairly on they way across the strait , the sky suddenly cloud and a great storm arise . the wave rise mountain high , the wind howl , the lightning flash and the thunder roll , and the boat which hold Ototachibana and the Prince and he man be toss from crest to crest of the rolling wave , till it seem that every moment must be they last and that they must all be swallow up in the angry sea . for Kin Jin . the Dragon King of the Sea , have hear Yamato take jeer , and have raise this terrible storm in anger , to show the scoffing Prince how awful the sea could be though it do but look like a brook . the terrify crew lower the sail and look after the rudder , and work for they dear life ' sake , but all in vain -- the storm only seem to increase in violence , and all give themselves up for lose . then the faithful Ototachibana rise , and forget all the grief that she husband have cause she , forget even that he have weary of she , in the one great desire of she love to save he , she determine to sacrifice she life to rescue he from death if it be possible . while the wave dash over the ship and the wind whirl round they in fury she stand up and say : `` surely all this have come because the Prince have anger Rin Jin , the God of the Sea , by he jesting . if so , I , Ototachibana , will appease the wrath of the Sea God who desire nothing less than my husband 's life ! '' then address the sea she say : `` I will take the place of he Augustness , Yamato take . I will now cast myself into you outraged depths , give my life for he . therefore hear I and bring he safely to the shore of Kadzusa . '' with these word she leap quickly into the boisterous sea , and the wave soon whirl she away and she be lose to sight . strange to say , the storm cease at once , and the sea become as calm and smooth as the matting on which the astonished onlooker be sit . the god of the sea be now appease , and the weather clear and the sun shone as on a summer 's day . Yamato take soon reach the opposite shore and land safely , even as he wife Ototachibana have pray . he prowess in war be marvelous , and he succeed after some time in conquer the Eastern BarbariansS , the Ainu . he ascribe he safe landing wholly to the faithfulness of he wife , who have so willingly and lovingly sacrifice herself in the hour of he utmost peril . he heart be soften at the remembrance of she , and he never allow she to pass from he thought even for a moment . too late have he learn to esteem the goodness of she heart and the greatness of she love for he . as he be return on he homeward way he come to the high pass of the Usui Toge , and here he stand and gaze at the wonderful prospect beneath he . the country , from this great elevation , all lay open to he sight , a vast panorama of mountain and plain and forest , with river wind like silver ribbon through the land ; then far off he see the distant sea , which shimmer like a luminous mist in the great distance , where Ototachibana have give she life for he , and as he turn towards it he stretch out he arm , and thinking of she love which he have scorn and he faithlessness to she , he heart burst out into a sorrowful and bitter cry : `` Azuma , Azuma , Ya ! '' -lrb-B- oh ! my wife , my wife ! -rrb-B- and to this day there be a district in Tokio call Azuma , which commemorate the word of Prince Yamato take , and the place where he faithful wife leap into the sea to save he be still point out . so , though in life the Princess Ototachibana be unhappy , history keep she memory green , and the story of she unselfishness and heroic death will never pass away . Yamato take have now fulfil all he father 's order , he have subdue all rebel , and rid the land of all robber and enemy to the peace , and he renown be great , for in the whole land there be no one who could stand up against he , he be so strong in battle and wise in council . he be about to return straight for home by the way he have come , when the thought strike he that he would find it more interesting to take another route , so he pass through the province of Owari and come to the province of Omi . when the Prince reach Omi he find the people in a state of great excitement and fear . in many house as he pass along he see the sign of mourn and hear loud lamentation . on inquire the cause of this he be tell that a terrible monster have appear in the mountain , who daily come down from thence and make raid on the village , devour whoever he could seize . many home have be make desolate and the man be afraid to go out to they daily work in the field , or the woman to go to the river to wash they rice . when Yamato take hear this he wrath be kindle , and he say fiercely : `` from the western end of Kiushiu to the eastern corner of Yezo I have subdue all the King 's enemy -- there be no one who dare to break the law or to rebel against the King . it . be indeed a matter for wonder that here in this place , so near the capital , a wicked monster have dare to take up he abode and be the terror of the King 's subject . not long shall it find pleasure in devour innocent folk . I will start out and kill it at once . '' with these word he set out for the Ibuki Mountain , where the monster be say to live . he climb up a good distance , when all of a sudden , at a wind in the path , a monster serpent appear before he and stop the way . `` this must be the monster , '' say the Prince ; `` I do not need my sword for a serpent . I can kill he with my hand . '' he thereupon spring upon the serpent and try to strangle it to death with he bare arm . it be not long before he prodigious strength gain the mastery and the serpent lay dead at he foot . now a sudden darkness come over the mountain and rain begin to fall , so that for the gloom and the rain the Prince could hardly see which way to take . in a short time , however , while he be grope he way down the pass , the weather clear , and we brave hero be able to make he way quickly down the mountain . when be get back he begin to feel ill and to have burning pain in he foot , so he know that the serpent have poison he . so great be he suffering that he could hardly move , much less walk , so he have himself carry to a place in the mountain famous for its hot mineral spring , which rise bubble out of the earth , and almost boil from the volcanic fire beneath . Yamato take bathed daily in these water , and gradually he feel he strength come again , and the pain leave he , till at last one day he find with great joy that he be quite recover . he now hasten to the temple of Ise , where you will remember that he pray before undertake this long expedition . he aunt , priestess of the shrine , who have bless he on he set out , now come to welcome he back . he tell she of the many danger he have encounter and of how marvelously he life have be preserve through all -- and she praise he courage and he warrior 's prowess , and then put on she most magnificent robe she return thanks to they ancestress the Sun Goddess Amaterasu , to whose protection they both ascribe the Prince 's wonderful preservation . here end the story of Prince Yamato take of Japan .