133 the shoe that be Danced to Pieces BrothersS Grimm THERE be once upon a time a king who have twelve daughter , each one more beautiful than the other . they all sleep together in one chamber , in which they bed stand side by side , and every night when they be in they the King lock the door , and bolt it . but in the morning when he unlock the door , he see that they shoe be worn out with dancing , and no one could find out how that have come to pass . then the King cause it to be proclaim that whosoever could discover where they dance at night , should choose one of they for he wife and be King after he death , but that whosoever come forward and have not discover it within three day and night , should have forfeit he life . it be not long before a King 's son present himself , and offer to undertake the enterprise . he be well receive , and in the evening be lead into a room adjoining the princess ' sleeping-chamber . he bed be place there , and he be to observe where they go and dance , and in order that they might do nothing secretly or go away to some other place , the door of they room be leave open . but the eyelid of the prince grow heavy as lead , and he fall asleep , and when he awake in the morning , all twelve have be to the dance , for they shoe be stand there with hole in the sole . on the second and third night it fall out just the same , and then he head be strike off without mercy . many other come after this and undertake the enterprise , but all forfeit they life . now it come to pass that a poor soldier , who have a wound , and could serve no longer , find himself on the road to the town where the King live . there he meet a old woman , who ask he where he be go . `` I hardly know myself , '' answer he , and add in jest , `` I have half a mind to discover where the princess dance they shoe into hole , and thus become King . '' `` that be not so difficult , '' say the old woman , `` you must not drink the wine which will be bring to you at night , and must pretend to be sound asleep . '' with that she give he a little cloak , and say , `` if you put on that , you will be invisible , and then you can steal after the twelve . '' when the soldier have receive this good advice , he go into the thing in earnest , take heart , go to the King , and announce himself as a suitor . he be as well receive as the other , and royal garment be put upon he . he be conduct that evening at bed-time into the ante-chamber , and as he be about to go to bed , the eldest come and bring he a cup of wine , but he have tie a sponge under he chin , and let the wine run down into it , without drink a drop . then he lay down and when he have lie a while , he begin to snore , as if in the deepest sleep . the twelve princess hear that , and laugh , and the eldest say , `` he , too , might as well have save he life . '' with that they get up , open wardrobe , press , cupboard , and bring out pretty dress ; dress themselves before the mirror , spring about , and rejoice at the prospect of the dance . only the youngest say , `` I know not how it be ; you be very happy , but I feel very strange ; some misfortune be certainly about to befall we . '' `` Thou art a goose , who art always frighten , '' say the eldest . `` Hast thou forget how many KingsS ' son have already come here in vain ? I have hardly any need to give the soldier a sleeping-draught , in any case the clown would not have awaken . '' when they be all ready they look carefully at the soldier , but he have close he eye and do not move or stir , so they feel themselves quite secure . the eldest then go to she bed and tap it ; it immediately sink into the earth , and one after the other they descend through the opening , the eldest go first . the soldier , who have watch everything , tarry no longer , put on he little cloak , and go down last with the youngest . half-way down the step , he just tread a little on she dress ; she be terrify at that , and cry out , `` what be that ? who be pull my dress ? '' `` do not be so silly ! '' say the eldest , `` you have catch it on a nail . '' then they go all the way down , and when they be at the bottom , they be stand in a wonderfully pretty avenue of tree , all the leaf of which be of silver , and shone and glisten . the soldier thought , `` I must carry a token away with I , '' and break off a twig from one of they , on which the tree crack with a loud report . the youngest cry out again . `` something be wrong , do you hear the crack ? '' but the eldest say , `` it be a gun fire for joy , because we have get rid of we prince so quickly . '' after that they come into a avenue where all the leaf be of gold , and lastly into a third where they be of bright diamond ; he break off a twig from each , which make such a crack each time that the youngest start back in terror , but the eldest still maintain that they be salute . they go on and come to a great lake whereon stand twelve little boat , and in every boat sit a handsome prince , all of whom be wait for the twelve , and each take one of they with he , but the soldier seat himself by the youngest . then she prince say , `` I can not tell why the boat be so much heavier to-day ; I shall have to row with all my strength , if I be to get it across . '' `` what should cause that , '' say the youngest , `` but the warm weather ? I feel very warm too . '' on the opposite side of the lake stand a splendid , brightly-lit castle , from whence resound the joyous music of trumpet and kettle-drums . they row over there , enter , and each prince dance with the girl he love , but the soldier dance with they unseen , and when one of they have a cup of wine in she hand he drink it up , so that the cup be empty when she carry it to she mouth ; the youngest be alarm at this , but the eldest always make she be silent . they dance there till three o'clock in the morning when all the shoe be dance into hole , and they be force to leave off ; the prince row they back again over the lake , and this time the soldier seat himself by the eldest . on the shore they take leave of they prince , and promise to return the following night . when they reach the stair the soldier run on in front and lay down in he bed , and when the twelve have come up slowly and wearily , he be already snore so loudly that they could all hear he , and they say , `` so far as he be concern , we be safe . '' they take off they beautiful dress , lay they away , put the worn-out shoe under the bed , and lay down . next morning the soldier be resolve not to speak , but to watch the wonderful going on , and again go with they . then everything be do just as it have be do the first time , and each time they dance until they shoe be worn to piece . but the third time he take a cup away with he as a token . when the hour have arrive for he to give he answer , he take the three twig and the cup , and go to the King , but the twelve stand behind the door , and listen for what he be go to say . when the King put the question , `` where have my twelve daughter dance they shoe to piece in the night ? '' he answer , `` in a underground castle with twelve prince , '' and relate how it have come to pass , and bring out the token . the King then summon he daughter , and ask they if the soldier have tell the truth , and when they see that they be betray , and that falsehood would be of no avail , they be oblige to confess all . Thereupon the King ask which of they he would have to wife ? he answer , `` I be no longer young , so give I the eldest . '' then the wedding be celebrate on the self-same day , and the kingdom be promise he after the King 's death . but the prince be bewitch for as many day as they have dance night with the twelve .