179 the Goose-Girl at the Well BrothersS Grimm there be once upon a time a very old woman , who live with he flock of goose in a waste place among the mountain , and there have a little house . the waste be surround by a large forest , and every morning the old woman take she crutch and hobble into it . there , however , the dame be quite active , more so than any one would have think , consider she age , and collect grass for she goose , pick all the wild fruit she could reach , and carry everything home on she back . any one would have think that the heavy load would have weigh she to the ground , but she always bring it safely home . if any one meet she , she greet he quite courteously . `` good day , dear countryman , it be a fine day . ah ! you wonder that I should drag grass about , but every one must take he burthen on he back . '' nevertheless , people do not like to meet she if they could help it , and take by preference a round-about way , and when a father with he boy pass she , he whisper to they , `` beware of the old woman . she have claw beneath she glove ; she be a witch . '' one morning , a handsome young man be go through the forest . the sun shone bright , the bird sing , a cool breeze creep through the leaf , and he be full of joy and gladness . he have as yet meet no one , when he suddenly perceive the old witch kneel on the ground cut grass with a sickle . she have already thrust a whole load into she cloth , and near it stand two basket , which be fill with wild apple and pear . `` but , good little mother , '' say he , `` how canst thou carry all that away ? '' `` I must carry it , dear sir , '' answer she , `` rich folk 's child have no need to do such thing , but with the peasant folk the say go , do not look behind you , you will only see how crooked you back be ! '' `` will you help I ? '' she say , as he remain standing by she . `` you have still a straight back and young leg , it would be a trifle to you . besides , my house be not so very far from here , it stand there on the heath behind the hill . how soon you would bind up thither . '' the young man take compassion on the old woman . `` my father be certainly no peasant , '' reply he , `` but a rich count ; nevertheless , that you may see that it be not only peasant who can carry thing , I will take you bundle . '' `` if you will try it , '' say she , `` I shall be very glad . you will certainly have to walk for a hour , but what will that signify to you ; only you must carry the apple and pear as well ? '' it now seem to the young man just a little serious , when he hear of a hour 's walk , but the old woman would not let he off , pack the bundle on he back , and hang the two basket on he arm . `` See , it be quite light , '' say she . `` no , it be not light , '' answer the count , and pull a rueful face . `` verily , the bundle weigh as heavily as if it be full of cobble stone , and the apple and pear be as heavy as lead ! I can scarcely breathe . '' he have a mind to put everything down again , but the old woman would not allow it . `` just look , '' say she mockingly , `` the young gentleman will not carry what I , a old woman , have so often drag along . you be ready with fine word , but when it come to be earnest , you want to take to you heel . why be you stand loitering there ? '' she continue . `` step out . no one will take the bundle off again . '' as long as he walk on level ground , it be still bearable , but when they come to the hill and have to climb , and the stone roll down under he foot as if they be alive , it be beyond he strength . the drop of perspiration stand on he forehead , and run , hot and cold , down he back . `` Dame , '' say he , `` I can go no farther . I want to rest a little . '' `` not here , '' answer the old woman , `` when we have arrive at we journey 's end , you can rest ; but now you must go forward . who know what good it may do you ? '' `` old woman , thou art become shameless ! '' say the count , and try to throw off the bundle , but he labor in vain ; it stick as fast to he back as if it grow there . he turn and twist , but he could not get rid of it . the old woman laugh at this , and spring about quite delighted on she crutch . `` do not get angry , dear sir , '' say she , `` you be grow as red in the face as a turkey-cock ! carry you bundle patiently . I will give you a good present when we get home . '' what could he do ? he be oblige to submit to he fate , and crawl along patiently behind the old woman . she seem to grow more and more nimble , and he burden still heavier . all at once she make a spring , jump on to the bundle and seat herself on the top of it ; and however wither she might be , she be yet heavier than the stoutest country lass . the youth 's knee tremble , but when he do not go on , the old woman hit he about the leg with a switch and with stinging-nettles . groan continually , he climb the mountain , and at length reach the old woman 's house , when he be just about to drop . when the goose perceive the old woman , they flap they wing , stretch out they neck , run to meet she , cackle all the while . behind the flock walk , stick in hand , a old wench , strong and big , but ugly as night . `` good mother , '' say she to the old woman , `` have anything happen to you , you have stay away so long ? '' `` by no means , my dear daughter , '' answer she , `` I have meet with nothing bad , but , on the contrary , with this kind gentleman , who have carry my burthen for I ; only think , he even take I on he back when I be tire . the way , too , have not seem long to we ; we have be merry , and have be crack joke with each other all the time . '' at last the old woman slide down , take the bundle off the young man 's back , and the basket from he arm , look at he quite kindly , and say , `` now seat yourself on the bench before the door , and rest . you have fairly earn you wages , and they shall not be want . '' then she say to the goose - girl , `` go into the house , my dear daughter , it be not become for thee to be alone with a young gentleman ; one must not pour oil on to the fire , he might fall in love with thee . '' the count know not whether to laugh or to cry . `` such a sweetheart as that , '' think he , `` could not touch my heart , even if she be thirty year younger . '' in the meantime the old woman stroke and fondle she goose as if they be child , and then go into the house with she daughter . the youth lay down on the bench , under a wild apple-tree . the air be warm and mild ; on all side stretch a green meadow , which be set with cowslip , wild thyme , and a thousand other flower ; through the midst of it ripple a clear brook on which the sun sparkle , and the white goose go walk backwards and forwards , or paddle in the water . `` it be quite delightful here , '' say he , `` but I be so tired that I can not keep my eye open ; I will sleep a little . if only a gust of wind do not come and blow my leg off my body , for they be as rotten as tinder . '' when he have sleep a little while , the old woman come and shake he till he awake . `` sit up , '' say she , `` thou canst not stay here ; I have certainly treat thee hardly , still it have not cost thee thy life . of money and land thou hast no need , here be something else for thee . '' Thereupon she thrust a little book into he hand , which be cut out of a single emerald . `` take great care of it , '' say she , `` it will bring thee good fortune . '' the count spring up , and as he feel that he be quite fresh , and have recover he vigor , he thank the old woman for she present , and set off without even once look back at the beautiful daughter . when he be already some way off , he still hear in the distance the noisy cry of the goose . for three day the count have to wander in the wilderness before he could find he way out . he then reach a large town , and as no one know he , he be lead into the royal palace , where the King and Queen be sit on they throne . the count fall on one knee , draw the emerald book out of he pocket , and lay it at the Queen 's foot . she bid he rise and hand she the little book . hardly , however , have she open it , and look therein , than she fall as if dead to the ground . the count be seize by the King 's servant , and be be lead to prison , when the Queen open she eye , and order they to release he , and every one be to go out , as she wish to speak with he in private . when the Queen be alone , she begin to weep bitterly , and say , `` of what use to I be the splendor and honor with which I be surround ; every morning I awake in pain and sorrow . I have three daughter , the youngest of whom be so beautiful that the whole world look on she as a wonder . she be as white as snow , as rosy as apple-blossom , and she hair as radiant as sun-beams . when she cry , not tear fall from she eye , but pearl and jewel only . when she be fifteen year old , the King summon all three sister to come before he throne . you should have see how all the people gaze when the youngest enter , it be just as if the sun be rise ! then the King speak , `` my daughter , I know not when my last day may arrive ; I will to-day decide what each shall receive at my death . you all love I , but the one of you who love I best , shall fare the best . '' each of they say she love he best . `` can you not express to I , '' say the King , `` how much you do love I , and thus I shall see what you mean ? '' the eldest speak . `` I love my father as dearly as the sweetest sugar . '' the second , `` I love my father as dearly as my prettiest dress . '' but the youngest be silent . then the father say , `` and thou , my dearest child , how much dost thou love I ? '' `` I do not know , and can compare my love with nothing . '' but she father insist that she should name something . so she say at last , `` the best food do not please I without salt , therefore I love my father like salt . '' when the King hear that , he fall into a passion , and say , `` if thou lovest I like salt , thy love shall also be repay thee with salt . '' then he divide the kingdom between the two elder , but cause a sack of salt to be bind on the back of the youngest , and two servant have to lead she forth into the wild forest . we all beg and pray for she , say the Queen , `` but the King 's anger be not to be appease . how she cry when she have to leave we ! the whole road be strew with the pearl which flow from she eye . the King soon afterwards repent of he great severity , and have the whole forest search for the poor child , but no one could find she . when I think that the wild beast have devour she , I know not how to contain myself for sorrow ; many a time I console myself with the hope that she be still alive , and may have hide herself in a cave , or have find shelter with compassionate people . but picture to yourself , when I open you little emerald book , a pearl lay therein , of exactly the same kind as those which use to fall from my daughter 's eye ; and then you can also imagine how the sight of it stir my heart . you must tell I how you come by that pearl . '' the count tell she that he have receive it from the old woman in the forest , who have appear very strange to he , and must be a witch , but he have neither see nor hear anything of the Queen 's child . the King and the Queen resolve to seek out the old woman . they think that there where the pearl have be , they would obtain news of they daughter . the old woman be sit in that lonely place at she spinning-wheel , spinning . it be already dusk , and a log which be burn on the hearth give a scanty light . all at once there be a noise outside , the goose be come home from the pasture , and utter they hoarse cry . soon afterwards the daughter also enter . but the old woman scarcely thank she , and only shake she head a little . the daughter sit down beside she , take she spinning-wheel , and twist the thread as nimbly as a young girl . thus they both sit for two hour , and exchange never a word . at last something rustle at the window , and two fiery eye peer in . it be a old night-owl , which cry , `` Uhu ! '' three time . the old woman look up just a little , then she say , `` now , my little daughter , it be time for thee to go out and do thy work . '' she rise and go out , and where do she go ? over the meadow ever onward into the valley . at last she come to a well , with three old oak-trees stand beside it ; meanwhile the moon have rise large and round over the mountain , and it be so light that one could have find a needle . she remove a skin which cover she face , then bent down to the well , and begin to wash herself . when she have finish , she dip the skin also in the water , and then lay it on the meadow , so that it should bleach in the moonlight , and dry again . but how the maiden be change ! such a change as that be never see before ! when the gray mask fall off , she golden hair break forth like sunbeam , and spread about like a mantle over she whole form . she eye shine out as brightly as the star in heaven , and she cheek bloom a soft red like apple-blossom . but the fair maiden be sad . she sit down and weep bitterly . one tear after another force itself out of she eye , and roll through she long hair to the ground . there she sit , and would have remain sit a long time , if there have not be a rustling and crack in the bough of the neighbouring tree . she spring up like a roe which have be overtake by the shot of the hunter . just then the moon be obscure by a dark cloud , and in a instant the maiden have put on the old skin and vanish , like a light blow out by the wind . she run back home , tremble like a aspen-leaf . the old woman be stand on the threshold , and the girl be about to relate what have befall she , but the old woman laugh kindly , and say , `` I already know all . '' she lead she into the room and light a new log . she do not , however , sit down to she spinning again , but fetch a broom and begin to sweep and scour , `` all must be clean and sweet , '' she say to the girl . `` but , mother , '' say the maiden , `` why do you begin work at so late a hour ? what do you expect ? '' `` dost thou know then what time it be ? '' ask the old woman . `` not yet midnight , '' answer the maiden , `` but already past eleven o'clock . '' `` dost thou not remember , '' continue the old woman , `` that it be three year to-day since thou camest to I ? thy time be up , we can no longer remain together . '' the girl be terrify , and say , `` Alas ! dear mother , will you cast I off ? where shall I go ? I have no friend , and no home to which I can go . I have always do as you bid I , and you have always be satisfy with I ; do not send I away . '' the old woman would not tell the maiden what lay before she . `` my stay here be over , '' she say to she , `` but when I depart , house and parlor must be clean : therefore do not hinder I in my work . Have no care for thyself , thou shalt find a roof to shelter thee , and the wages which I will give thee shall also content thee . '' `` but tell I what be about to happen , '' the maiden continue to entreat . `` I tell thee again , do not hinder I in my work . do not say a word more , go to thy chamber , take the skin off thy face , and put on the silken gown which thou hadst on when thou camest to I , and then wait in thy chamber until I call thee . '' but I must once more tell of the King and Queen , who have journey forth with the count in order to seek out the old woman in the wilderness . the count have stray away from they in the wood by night , and have to walk onward alone . next day it seem to he that he be on the right track . he still go forward , until darkness come on , then he climb a tree , intend to pass the night there , for he fear that he might lose he way . when the moon illumine the surrounding country he perceive a figure come down the mountain . she have no stick in she hand , but yet he could see that it be the goose-girl , whom he have see before in the house of the old woman . `` Oho , '' cry he , `` there she come , and if I once get hold of one of the witch , the other shall not escape I ! '' but how astonished he be , when she go to the well , take off the skin and wash herself , when she golden hair fall down all about she , and she be more beautiful than any one whom he have ever see in the whole world . he hardly dare to breathe , but stretch he head as far forward through the leaf as he dare , and stare at she . either he bent over too far , or whatever the cause might be , the bough suddenly crack , and that very moment the maiden slip into the skin , spring away like a roe , and as the moon be suddenly cover , disappear from he eye . hardly have she disappear , before the count descend from the tree , and hasten after she with nimble step . he have not be go long before he see , in the twilight , two figure come over the meadow . it be the King and Queen , who have perceive from a distance the light shine in the old woman 's little house , and be go to it . the count tell they what wonderful thing he have see by the well , and they do not doubt that it have be they lose daughter . they walk onwards full of joy , and soon come to the little house . the goose be sit all round it , and have thrust they head under they wing and be sleep , and not one of they move . the King and Queen look in at the window , the old woman be sit there quite quietly spinning , nod she head and never look round . the room be perfectly clean , as if the little mist man , who carry no dust on they foot , live there . they daughter , however , they do not see . they gaze at all this for a long time , at last they take heart , and knock softly at the window . the old woman appear to have be expect they ; she rise , and call out quite kindly , `` come in , -- I know you already . '' when they have enter the room , the old woman say , `` you might have spare yourself the long walk , if you have not three year ago unjustly drive away you child , who be so good and lovable . no harm have come to she ; for three year she have have to tend the goose ; with they she have learn no evil , but have preserve she purity of heart . you , however , have be sufficiently punish by the misery in which you have live . '' then she go to the chamber and call , `` come out , my little daughter . '' Thereupon the door open , and the princess step out in she silken garment , with she golden hair and she shine eye , and it be as if a angel from heaven have enter . she go up to she father and mother , fall on they neck and kiss they ; there be no help for it , they all have to weep for joy . the young count stand near they , and when she perceive he she become as red in the face as a moss-rose , she herself do not know why . the King say , `` my dear child , I have give away my kingdom , what shall I give thee ? '' `` she need nothing , '' say the old woman . `` I give she the tear that she have weep on you account ; they be precious pearl , finer than those that be find in the sea , and worth more than you whole kingdom , and I give she my little house as payment for she service . '' when the old woman have say that , she disappear from they sight . the wall rattle a little , and when the King and Queen look round , the little house have change into a splendid palace , a royal table have be spread , and the servant be run hither and thither . the story go still further , but my grandmother , who relate it to I , have partly lose she memory , and have forget the rest . I shall always believe that the beautiful princess marry the count , and that they remain together in the palace , and live there in all happiness so long as God will it . whether the snow-white goose , which be keep near the little hut , be verily young maiden -lrb-B- no one need take offence , -rrb-B- whom the old woman have take under she protection , and whether they now receive they human form again , and stay as handmaid to the young Queen , I do not exactly know , but I suspect it . this much be certain , that the old woman be no witch , as people think , but a wise woman , who mean well . very likely it be she who , at the princess 's birth , give she the gift of weep pearl instead of tear . that do not happen now-a-days , or else the poor would soon become rich .