97 the Water of Life BrothersS Grimm there be once a king who have a illness , and no one believe that he would come out of it with he life . he have three son who be much distressed about it , and go down into the palace-garden and weep . there they meet a old man who inquire as to the cause of they grief . they tell he that they father be so ill that he would most certainly die , for nothing seem to cure he . then the old man say , `` I know of one more remedy , and that be the water of life ; if he drink of it he will become well again ; but it be hard to find . '' the eldest say , `` I will manage to find it , '' and go to the sick King , and beg to be allow to go forth in search of the water of life , for that alone could save he . `` no , '' say the King , `` the danger of it be too great . I would rather die . '' but he beg so long that the King consent . the prince think in he heart , `` if I bring the water , then I shall be best beloved of my father , and shall inherit the kingdom . '' so he set out , and when he have ride forth a little distance , a dwarf stand there in the road who call to he and say , `` whither away so fast ? '' `` Silly shrimp , '' say the prince , very haughtily , `` it be nothing to do with you , '' and ride on . but the little dwarf have grow angry , and have wish a evil wish . soon after this the prince enter a ravine , and the further he ride the closer the mountain draw together , and at last the road become so narrow that he could not advance a step further ; it be impossible either to turn he horse or to dismount from the saddle , and he be shut in there as if in prison . the sick King wait long for he , but he come not . then the second son say , `` Father , let I go forth to seek the water , '' and think to himself , `` if my brother be dead , then the kingdom will fall to I . '' at first the King would not allow he to go either , but at last he yield , so the prince set out on the same road that he brother have take , and he too meet the dwarf , who stop he to ask , whither he be go in such haste ? `` little shrimp , '' say the prince , `` that be nothing to thee , '' and ride on without give he another look . but the dwarf bewitch he , and he , like the other , ride into a ravine , and could neither go forwards nor backwards . so fare haughty people . as the second son also remain away , the youngest beg to be allow to go forth to fetch the water , and at last the King be oblige to let he go . when he meet the dwarf and the latter ask he whither he be go in such haste , he stop , give he a explanation , and say , `` I be seek the water of life , for my father be sick unto death . '' `` dost thou know , then , where that be to be find ? '' `` no , '' say the prince . `` as thou hast bear thyself as be seemly , and not haughtily like thy false brother , I will give thee the information and tell thee how thou mayst obtain the water of life . it spring from a fountain in the courtyard of a enchant castle , but thou wilt not be able to make thy way to it , if I do not give thee a iron wand and two small loaf of bread . strike thrice with the wand on the iron door of the castle and it will spring open : inside lie two lion with gaping jaw , but if thou throwest a loaf to each of they , they will be quiet . then hasten to fetch some of the water of life before the clock strike twelve , else the door will shut again , and thou wilt be imprison . '' the prince thank he , take the wand and the bread , and set out on he way . when he arrive , everything be as the dwarf have say . the door spring open at the third stroke of the wand , and when he have appease the lion with the bread , he enter the castle , and come to a large and splendid hall , wherein sit some enchant prince whose ring he draw off they finger . a sword and a loaf of bread be lie there , which he carry away . after this , he enter a chamber , in which be a beautiful maiden who rejoice when she see he , kiss he , and tell he that he have deliver she , and should have the whole of she kingdom , and that if he would return in a year they wedding should be celebrate ; likewise she tell he where the spring of the water of life be , and that he be to hasten and draw some of it before the clock strike twelve . then he go onward , and at last enter a room where there be a beautiful newly-made bed , and as he be very weary , he feel incline to rest a little . so he lay down and fall asleep . when he awake , it be strike a quarter to twelve . he spring up in a fright , run to the spring , draw some water in a cup which stand near , and hasten away . but just as he be pass through the iron door , the clock strike twelve , and the door fall to with such violence that it carry away a piece of he heel . he , however , rejoice at have obtain the water of life , go homeward , and again pass the dwarf . when the latter saw the sword and the loaf , he say , `` with these thou hast win great wealth ; with the sword thou canst slay whole army , and the bread will never come to a end . '' but the prince would not go home to he father without he brother , and say , `` dear dwarf , canst thou not tell I where my two brother be ? they go out before I do in search of the water of life , and have not return . '' `` they be imprison between two mountain , '' say the dwarf . `` I have condemn they to stay there , because they be so haughty . '' then the prince beg until the dwarf release they ; but he warn he , however , and say , `` beware of they , for they have bad heart . '' when he brother come , he rejoice , and tell they how thing have go with he , that he have find the water of life and have bring a cupful away with he , and have rescue a beautiful princess , who be willing to wait a year for he , and then they wedding be to be celebrate and he would obtain a great kingdom . after that they ride on together , and chance upon a land where war and famine reign , and the King already think he must perish , for the scarcity be so great . then the prince go to he and give he the loaf , wherewith he feed and satisfy the whole of he kingdom , and then the prince give he the sword also wherewith he slew the host of he enemy , and could now live in rest and peace . the prince then take back he loaf and he sword , and the three brother ride on . but after this they enter two more country where war and famine reign and each time the prince give he loaf and he sword to the KingsS , and have now deliver three kingdom , and after that they go on board a ship and sail over the sea . during the passage , the two eldest converse apart and say , `` the youngest have find the water of life and not we , for that we father will give he the kingdom the kingdom which belong to we , and he will rob we of all we fortune . '' they then begin to seek revenge , and plot with each other to destroy he . they wait until they find he fast asleep , then they pour the water of life out of the cup , and take it for themselves , but into the cup they pour salt sea-water . now therefore , when they arrive home , the youngest take he cup to the sick king in order that he might drink out of it , and be cure . but scarcely have he drunk a very little of the salt sea-water than he become still worse than before . and as he be lament over this , the two eldest brother come , and accuse the youngest of have intend to poison he , and say that they have bring he the true water of life , and hand it to he . he have scarcely taste it , when he feel he sickness depart , and become strong and healthy as in the day of he youth . after that they both go to the youngest , mock he , and say , `` you certainly find the water of life , but you have have the pain , and we the gain ; you should have be sharper , and should have keep you eye open . we take it from you whilst you be asleep at sea , and when a year be over , one of we will go and fetch the beautiful princess . but beware that you do not disclose aught of this to we father ; indeed he do not trust you , and if you say a single word , you shall lose you life into the bargain , but if you keep silent , you shall have it as a gift . '' the old king be angry with he youngest son , and think he have plot against he life . so he summon the court together and have sentence pronounce upon he son , that he should be secretly shoot . and once when the prince be ride forth to the chase , suspect no evil , the King 's huntsman have to go with he , and when they be quite alone in the forest , the huntsman look so sorrowful that the prince say to he , `` dear huntsman , what ail you ? '' the huntsman say , `` I can not tell you , and yet I ought . '' then the prince say , `` say openly what it be , I will pardon you . '' `` Alas ! '' say the huntsman , `` I be to shoot you dead , the King have order I to do it . '' then the prince be shock , and say , `` dear huntsman , let I live ; there , I give you my royal garment ; give I you common one in they stead . '' the huntsman say , `` I will willingly do that , indeed I should not have be able to shoot you . '' then they exchange clothes , and the huntsman return home ; the prince , however , go further into the forest . after a time three waggon of gold and precious stone come to the King for he youngest son , which be send by the three KingsS who have slay they enemy with the prince 's sword , and maintain they people with he bread , and who wish to show they gratitude for it . the old King then think , `` can my son have be innocent ? '' and say to he people , `` would that he be still alive , how it grieve I that I have suffer he to be kill ! '' `` he still live , '' say the huntsman , `` I could not find it in my heart to carry out you command , '' and tell the King how it have happen . then a stone fall from the King 's heart , and he have it proclaim in every country that he son might return and be take into favor again . the princess , however , have a road make up to she palace which be quite bright and golden , and tell she people that whosoever come ride straight along it to she , would be the right wooer and be to be admit , and whoever ride by the side of it , be not the right one , and be not to be admit . as the time be now close at hand , the eldest thought he would hasten to go to the King 's daughter , and give himself out as she deliverer , and thus win she for he bride , and the kingdom to boot . therefore he ride forth , and when he arrive in front of the palace , and see the splendid golden road , he think , it would be a sin and a shame if he be to ride over that , and turn aside , and ride on the right side of it . but when he come to the door , the servant tell he that he be not the right man , and be to go away again . soon after this the second prince set out , and when he come to the golden road , and he horse have put one foot on it , he think , it would be a sin and a shame to tread a piece of it off , and he turn aside and ride on the left side of it , and when he reach the door , the attendant tell he he be not the right one , and he be to go away again . when at last the year have entirely expire , the third son likewise wish to ride out of the forest to he beloved , and with she forget he sorrow . so he set out and thought of she so incessantly , and wish to be with she so much , that he never notice the golden road at all . so he horse ride onward up the middle of it , and when he come to the door , it be open and the princess receive he with joy , and say he be she deliverer , and lord of the kingdom , and they wedding be celebrate with great rejoicing . when it be over she tell he that he father invite he to come to he , and have forgive he . so he ride thither , and tell he everything ; how he brother have betray he , and how he have nevertheless keep silence . the old King wish to punish they , but they have put to sea , and never come back as long as they live .