186 the true Sweethearts BrothersS Grimm there be once on a time a girl who be young and beautiful , but she have lose she mother when she be quite a child , and she step-mother do all she could to make the girl 's life wretch . whenever this woman give she anything to do , she work at it indefatigably , and do everything that lay in she power . still she could not touch the heart of the wicked woman by that ; she be never satisfy ; it be never enough . the harder the girl work , the more work be put upon she , and all that the woman thought of be how to weigh she down with still heavier burden , and make she life still more miserable . one day she say to she , `` here be twelve pound of feather which thou must pick , and if they be not do this evening , thou mayst expect a good beating . dost thou imagine thou art to idle away the whole day ? '' the poor girl sit down to the work , but tear run down she cheek as she do so , for she see plainly enough that it be quite impossible to finish the work in one day . Whenever she have a little heap of feather lie before she , and she sigh or smite she hand together in she anguish , they fly away , and she have to pick they out again , and begin she work anew . then she put she elbow on the table , lay she face in she two hand , and cry , `` be there no one , then , on God 's earth to have pity on I ? '' then she hear a low voice which say , `` be comfort , my child , I have come to help thee . '' the maiden look up , and a old woman be by she side . she take the girl kindly by the hand , and say , `` only tell I what be troubling thee . '' as she speak so kindly , the girl tell she of she miserable life , and how one burden after another be lay upon she , and she never could get to the end of the work which be give to she . `` if I have not do these feather by this evening , my step-mother will beat I ; she have threaten she will , and I know she keep she word . '' she tear begin to flow again , but the good old woman say , `` do not be afraid , my child ; rest a while , and in the meantime I will look to thy work . '' the girl lay down on she bed , and soon fall asleep . the old woman seat herself at the table with the feather , and how they do fly off the quill , which she scarcely touch with she withered hand ! the twelve pound be soon finish , and when the girl awake , great snow-white heap be lie , pile up , and everything in the room be neatly clear away , but the old woman have vanish . the maiden thank God , and sit still till evening come , when the step-mother come in and marvel to see the work complete . `` just look , you awkward creature , '' say she , `` what can be do when people be industrious ; and why couldst thou not set about something else ? there thou sittest with thy hand cross . '' when she go out she say , `` the creature be worth more than she salt . I must give she some work that be still harder . '' next morning she call the girl , and say , `` there be a spoon for thee ; with that thou must empty out for I the great pond which be beside the garden , and if it be not do by night , thou knowest what will happen . '' the girl take the spoon , and see that it be full of hole ; but even if it have not be , she never could have empty the pond with it . she set to work at once , kneel down by the water , into which she tear be fall , and begin to empty it . but the good old woman appear again , and when she learn the cause of she grief , she say , `` be of good cheer , my child . go into the thicket and lie down and sleep ; I will soon do thy work . '' as soon as the old woman be alone , she barely touch the pond , and a vapor rise up on high from the water , and mingle itself with the cloud . gradually the pond be empty , and when the maiden awake before sunset and come thither , she see nothing but the fish which be struggle in the mud . she go to she step-mother , and show she that the work be do . `` it ought to have be do long before this , '' say she , and grow white with anger , but she meditate something new . on the third morning she say to the girl , `` Thou must build I a castle on the plain there , and it must be ready by the evening . '' the maiden be dismayed , and say , `` how can I complete such a great work ? '' `` I will endure no opposition , '' scream the step-mother . `` if thou canst empty a pond with a spoon that be full of hole , thou canst build a castle too . I will take possession of it this very day , and if anything be want , even if it be the most trifling thing in the kitchen or cellar , thou knowest what lie before thee ! '' she drive the girl out , and when she enter the valley , the rock be there , pile up one above the other , and all she strength would not have enable she even to move the very smallest of they . she sit down and weep , and still she hope the old woman would help she . the old woman be not long in come ; she comfort she and say , `` lie down there in the shade and sleep , and I will soon build the castle for thee . if it would be a pleasure to thee , thou canst live in it thyself . '' when the maiden have go away , the old woman touch the gray rock . they begin to rise , and immediately move together as if giant have build the wall ; and on these the building arise , and it seem as if countless hand be work invisibly , and place one stone upon another . there be a dull heavy noise from the ground ; pillar arise of they own accord on high , and place themselves in order near each other . the tile lay themselves in order on the roof , and when noon-day come , the great weather-cock be already turn itself on the summit of the tower , like a golden figure of the Virgin with flutter garment . the inside of the castle be be finish while evening be draw near . how the old woman manage it , I know not ; but the wall of the room be hang with silk and velvet , embroider chair be there , and richly ornamented arm-chairs by marble table ; crystal chandelier hang down from the ceiling , and mirror themselves in the smooth pavement ; green parrot be there in gilt cage , and so be strange bird which sing most beautifully , and there be on all side as much magnificence as if a king be go to live there . the sun be just set when the girl awake , and the brightness of a thousand light flash in she face . she hurry to the castle , and enter by the open door . the step be spread with red cloth , and the golden balustrade beset with flower tree . when she see the splendor of the apartment , she stand as if turn to stone . who know how long she might have stand there if she have not remember the step-mother ? `` Alas ! '' she say to herself , `` if she could but be satisfy at last , and would give up make my life a misery to I . '' the girl go and tell she that the castle be ready . `` I will move into it at once , '' say she , and rise from she seat . when they enter the castle , she be force to hold she hand before she eye , the brilliancy of everything be so dazzling . `` Thou seest , '' say she to the girl , `` how easy it have be for thee to do this ; I ought to have give thee something harder . '' she go through all the room , and examine every corner to see if anything be want or defective ; but she could discover nothing . `` now we will go down below , '' say she , look at the girl with malicious eye . `` the kitchen and the cellar still have to be examine , and if thou hast forget anything thou shalt not escape thy punishment . '' but the fire be burn on the hearth , and the meat be cook in the pan , the tong and shovel be lean against the wall , and the shine brazen utensil all arrange in sight . nothing be want , not even a coal-box and water-pail . `` which be the way to the cellar ? '' she cry . `` if that be not abundantly fill , it shall go ill with thee . '' she herself raise up the trap-door and descend ; but she have hardly make two step before the heavy trap-door which be only lay back , fall down . the girl hear a scream , lift up the door very quickly to go to she aid , but she have fall down , and the girl find she lie lifeless at the bottom . and now the magnificent castle belong to the girl alone . she at first do not know how to reconcile herself to she good fortune . beautiful dress be hang in the wardrobe , the chest be fill with gold or silver , or with pearl and jewel , and she never feel a desire that she be not able to gratify . and soon the fame of the beauty and riches of the maiden go over all the world . wooer present themselves daily , but none please she . at length the son of the King come and he know how to touch she heart , and she betroth herself to he . in the garden of the castle be a lime-tree , under which they be one day sit together , when he say to she , `` I will go home and obtain my father 's consent to we marriage . I entreat thee to wait for I here under this lime-tree , I shall be back with thee in a few hour . '' the maiden kiss he on he left cheek , and say , `` keep true to I , and never let any one else kiss thee on this cheek . I will wait here under the lime-tree until thou returnest . '' the maid stay beneath the lime-tree until sunset , but he do not return . she sit three day from morning till evening , wait for he , but in vain . as he still be not there by the fourth day , she say , `` some accident have assuredly befall he . I will go out and seek he , and will not come back until I have find he . '' she pack up three of she most beautiful dress , one embroider with bright star , the second with silver moon , the third with golden sun , tie up a handful of jewel in she handkerchief , and set out . she inquire everywhere for she betrothed , but no one have see he ; no one know anything about he . Far and wide do she wander through the world , but she find he not . at last she hire herself to a farmer as a cow-herd , and bury she dress and jewel beneath a stone . and now she live as a herdswoman , guard she herd , and be very sad and full of longing for she beloved one ; she have a little calf which she teach to know she , and feed it out of she own hand , and when she say , `` little calf , little calf , kneel by my side , and do not forget thy shepherd-maid , as the prince forget he betrothed bride , who wait for he ` neath the lime-tree 's shade . '' the little calf knelt down , and she stroke it . and when she have live for a couple of year alone and full of grief , a report be spread over all the land that the King 's daughter be about to celebrate she marriage . the road to the town pass through the village where the maiden be live , and it come to pass that once when the maiden be drive out she herd , she bridegroom travel by . he be sit proudly on he horse , and never look round , but when she see he she recognize she beloved , and it be just as if a sharp knife have pierce she heart . `` Alas ! '' say she , `` I believe he true to I , but he have forget I . '' next day he again come along the road . when he be near she she say to the little calf , `` little calf , little calf , kneel by my side , and do not forget thy shepherd-maid , as the prince forget he betrothed bride , who wait for he ` neath the lime-tree 's shade . '' when he be aware of the voice , he look down and rein in he horse . he look into the herd 's face , and then put he hand before he eye as if he be try to remember something , but he soon ride onward and be out of sight . `` Alas ! '' say she , `` he no longer know I , '' and she grief be ever greater . soon after this a great festival three day long be to be hold at the King 's court , and the whole country be invite to it . `` now will I try my last chance , '' think the maiden , and when evening come she go to the stone under which she have bury she treasure . she take out the dress with the golden sun , put it on , and adorn herself with the jewel . she let down she hair , which she have conceal under a handkerchief , and it fall down in long curl about she , and thus she go into the town , and in the darkness be observe by no one . when she enter the brightly-lighted hall , every one start back in amazement , but no one know who she be . the King 's son go to meet she , but he do not recognize she . he lead she out to dance , and be so enchant with she beauty , that he think no more of the other bride . when the feast be over , she vanish in the crowd , and hasten before daybreak to the village , where she once more put on she herd 's dress . next evening she take out the dress with the silver moon , and put a half-moon make of precious stone in she hair . when she appear at the festival , all eye be turn upon she , but the King 's son hasten to meet she , and fill with love for she , dance with she alone , and no longer so much as glance at anyone else . before she go away she be force to promise he to come again to the festival on the last evening . when she appear for the third time , she wear the star-dress which sparkle at every step she take , and she hair-ribbon and girdle be star with jewel . the prince have already be wait for she for a long time , and force he way up to she . `` do but tell who thou art , '' say he , `` I feel just as if I have already know thee a long time . '' `` dost thou not know what I do when thou leftest I ? '' then she step up to he , and kiss he on he left cheek , and in a moment it be as if scale fall from he eye , and he recognize the true bride . `` come , '' say he to she , `` here I stay no longer , '' give she he hand , and lead she down to the carriage . the horse hurry away to the magic castle as if the wind have be harness to the carriage . the illuminated window already shine in the distance . when they drive past the lime-tree , countless glow-worms be swarm about it . it shake its branch , and send forth they fragrance . on the step flower be bloom , and the room echo with the song of strange bird , but in the hall the entire court be assemble , and the priest be wait to marry the bridegroom to the true bride .