9 the Twelve BrothersS BrothersS Grimm there be once on a time a king and a queen who live happily together and have twelve child , but they be all boy . then say the King to he wife , `` if the thirteenth child which thou art about to bring into the world , be a girl , the twelve boy shall die , in order that she possession may be great , and that the kingdom may fall to she alone . '' he cause likewise twelve coffin to be make , which be already fill with shaving , and in each lay the little pillow for the dead , and he have they take into a locked-up room , and then he give the Queen the key of it , and bid she not to speak of this to any one . the mother , however , now sit and lament all day long , until the youngest son , who be always with she , and whom she have name Benjamin , from the Bible , say to she , `` dear mother , why art thou so sad ? '' `` dearest child , '' she answer , `` I may not tell thee . '' but he let she have no rest until she go and unlock the room , and show he the twelve coffin ready fill with shaving . then she say , `` my dearest Benjamin , thy father have have these coffin make for thee and for thy eleven brother , for if I bring a little girl into the world , you be all to be kill and bury in they . '' and as she weep while she be say this , the son comfort she and say , `` weep not , dear mother , we will save ourselves , and go hence . '' but she say , `` go forth into the forest with thy eleven brother , and let one sit constantly on the highest tree which can be find , and keep watch , look towards the tower here in the castle . if I give birth to a little son , I will put up a white flag , and then you may venture to come back , but if I bear a daughter , I will hoist a red flag , and then fly hence as quickly as you be able , and may the good God protect you . and every night I will rise up and pray for you -- in winter that you may be able to warm yourself at a fire , and in summer that you may not faint away in the heat . '' after she have bless she son therefore , they go forth into the forest . they each keep watch in turn , and sit on the highest oak and look towards the tower . when eleven day have pass and the turn come to Benjamin , he see that a flag be be raise . it be , however , not the white , but the blood-red flag which announce that they be all to die . when the brother hear that , they be very angry and say , `` be we all to suffer death for the sake of a girl ? we swear that we will avenge ourselves ! -- wheresoever we find a girl , she red blood shall flow . '' thereupon they go deeper into the forest , and in the midst of it , where it be the darkest , they find a little bewitch hut , which be stand empty . then say they , `` here we will dwell , and thou Benjamin , who art the youngest and weakest , thou shalt stay at home and keep house , we other will go out and get food . '' then they go into the forest and shot hare , wild deer , bird and pigeon , and whatsoever there be to eat ; this they take to Benjamin , who have to dress it for they in order that they might appease they hunger . they live together ten year in the little hut , and the time do not appear long to they . the little daughter which they mother the Queen have give birth to , be now grow up ; she be good of heart , and fair of face , and have a golden star on she forehead . once , when it be the great wash , she see twelve man 's shirt among the thing , and ask she mother , `` to whom do these twelve shirt belong , for they be far too small for father ? '' then the Queen answer with a heavy heart , `` dear child , these belong to thy twelve brother . '' Said the maiden , `` where be my twelve brother , I have never yet hear of they ? '' she reply , `` God know where they be , they be wander about the world . '' then she take the maiden and open the chamber for she , and show she the twelve coffin with the shaving , and pillow for the head . `` these coffin , '' say she , `` be destine for thy brother , but they go away secretly before thou wert bear , '' and she relate to she how everything have happen ; then say the maiden , `` dear mother , weep not , I will go and seek my brother . '' so she take the twelve shirt and go forth , and straight into the great forest . she walk the whole day , and in the evening she come to the bewitch hut . then she enter it and find a young boy , who ask , `` from whence comest thou , and whither art thou bind ? '' and be astonish that she be so beautiful , and wear royal garment , and have a star on she forehead . and she answer , `` I be a king 's daughter , and be seek my twelve brother , and I will walk as far as the sky be blue until I find they . '' she likewise show he the twelve shirt which belong to they . then Benjamin see that she be he sister , and say , `` I be Benjamin , thy youngest brother . '' and she begin to weep for joy , and Benjamin weep also , and they kiss and embrace each other with the greatest love . but after this he say , `` dear sister , there be still one difficulty . we have agree that every maiden whom we meet shall die , because we have be oblige to leave we kingdom on account of a girl . '' then say she , `` I will willingly die , if by so do I can deliver my twelve brother . '' `` no , '' answer he , `` thou shalt not die , seat thyself beneath this tub until we eleven brother come , and then I will soon come to a agreement with they . '' she do so , and when it be night the other come from hunting , and they dinner be ready . and as they be sit at table , and eating , they ask , `` what news be there ? '' Said Benjamin , `` do not you know anything ? '' `` no , '' they answer . he continue , `` you have be in the forest and I have stay at home , and yet I know more than you do . '' `` tell we then , '' they cry . he answer , `` but promise I that the first maiden who meet we shall not be kill . '' `` yes , '' they all cry , `` she shall have mercy , only do tell we . '' then say he , `` we sister be here , '' and he lift up the tub , and the King 's daughter come forth in she royal garment with the golden star on she forehead , and she be beautiful , delicate and fair . then they be all rejoice , and fall on she neck , and kiss and love she with all they heart . now she stay at home with Benjamin and help he with the work . the eleven go into the forest and catch game , and deer , and bird , and wood-pigeons that they might have food , and the little sister and Benjamin take care to make it ready for they . she seek for the wood for cooking and herb for vegetable , and put the pan on the fire so that the dinner be always ready when the eleven come . she likewise keep order in the little house , and put beautifully white clean covering on the little bed , and the brother be always contented and live in great harmony with she . once on a time the two at home have prepare a beautiful entertainment , and when they be all together , they sit down and eat and drank and be full of gladness . there be , however , a little garden belong to the bewitch house wherein stand twelve lily flower , which be likewise call student . she wish to give she brother pleasure , and pluck the twelve flower , and think she would present each brother with one while at dinner . but at the self-same moment that she pluck the flower the twelve brother be change into twelve raven , and fly away over the forest , and the house and garden vanish likewise . and now the poor maiden be alone in the wild forest , and when she look around , a old woman be stand near she who say , `` my child , what hast thou do ? why didst thou not leave the twelve white flower grow ? they be thy brother , who be now for evermore change into raven . '' the maiden say , weep , `` be there no way of deliver they ? '' `` no , '' say the woman , `` there be but one in the whole world , and that be so hard that thou wilt not deliver they by it , for thou must be dumb for seven year , and mayst not speak or laugh , and if thou speakest one single word , and only a hour of the seven year be want , all be in vain , and thy brother will be kill by the one word . '' then say the maiden in she heart , `` I know with certainty that I shall set my brother free , '' and go and seek a high tree and seat herself in it and span , and neither speak nor laugh . now it so happen that a king be hunting in the forest , who have a great greyhound which run to the tree on which the maiden be sit , and spring about it , whine , and bark at she . then the King come by and see the beautiful King 's daughter with the golden star on she brow , and be so charm with she beauty that he call to ask she if she would be he wife . she make no answer , but nod a little with she head . so he climb up the tree himself , carry she down , place she on he horse , and bear she home . then the wedding be solemnize with great magnificence and rejoicing , but the bride neither speak nor smile . when they have live happily together for a few year , the King 's mother , who be a wicked woman , begin to slander the young Queen , and say to the King , `` this be a common beggar girl whom thou hast bring back with thee . who know what impious trick she practise secretly ! even if she be dumb , and not able to speak , she still might laugh for once ; but those who do not laugh have bad conscience . '' at first the King would not believe it , but the old woman urge this so long , and accuse she of so many evil thing , that at last the King let himself be persuade and sentence she to death . and now a great fire be light in the courtyard in which she be to be burnt , and the King stand above at the window and look on with tearful eye , because he still love she so much . and when she be bind fast to the stake , and the fire be lick at she clothes with its red tongue , the last instant of the seven year expire . then a whir sound be hear in the air , and twelve raven come fly towards the place , and sink downward , and when they touch the earth they be she twelve brother , whom she have deliver . they tear the fire asunder , extinguish the flame , set they dear sister free , and kiss and embrace she . and now as she dare to open she mouth and speak , she tell the King why she have be dumb , and have never laugh . the King rejoice when he hear that she be innocent , and they all live in great unity until they death . the wicked step-mother be take before the judge , and put into a barrel fill with boil oil and venomous snake , and die a evil death .