the INDISCREET CONFESSIONSS La Fontain FAMED Paris ne'er within its wall have get , such magick charm as be Aminta 's lot , Youth , beauty , temper , fortune , she possess , and all that should a husband render bless , the mother still retain she ` neath the wing ; she father 's riches well might lover bring ; Whate'er he daughter wish , he would provide , Amusements , jewel , dress , and much beside . BLITHE Damon for she have feel the dart , the belle receive the offer of he heart ; so well he manage and express he flame . that soon she lord and master he become , by Hymen 's right divine , you may conceive , and nothing short of it you should believe . a year have pass , and still we charming pair , be always please , and bliss seem to share ; -lrb-B- the honeymoon appear but just begin -rrb-B- and hope be entertain to have a son , when Damon on the subject chance to touch : in truth , say he , my soul be trouble much ; there be a fact , my dear , to you I 'll tell : I wish sincerely -lrb-B- since I love so well -rrb-B- that for another , I have never know such fond affection as to you I have show ; and none but you have enter in my breast , so worthy ev ` ry way to be caress . I have howe'er experienced other flame ; the fault 's acknowledged : I confess my shame . 'twa in a wood ; the nymph be young and nice , and Cupid only near to give advice ; so well he manage : -- or so ill , you 'll say ; a little girl I have live at this day . what , cry Aminta , now to you I 'll state ; what happen once to be you spouse 's fate ; I be at home alone , to say the truth , when thither come by chance a sprightly youth . the lad be handsome , with engaging mien ; I feel he worth : -- my nature be serene ; in short so many thing be we employ , I have still upon my hand a little boy . these word no sooner have escape the belle , than Damon into jealous torment fall ; with rage he leave the room ; and on he way , a large pack-saddle near he footstep lay , which on he back he put , then cry aloud , I be saddle ! see ; round quickly come a crowd ; the father , mother , all the servant run ; the neighbor too ; the husband then begin to state the circumstance that give he pain ; and fully all the folly to explain . the reader must not fail to keep in mind ; Aminta 's parent be both rich and kind , and have only she to be they heir , the age couple let the youthful pair , with all they train , within the house reside , and tranquilly the moment seem to glide . THU mother fondly to she daughter fly ; the father follow , keep she in view ; the dame go in , but he remain without : to listen he design beyond a doubt ; the door be on the jar ; the sage draw near ; in short , to all they say , he lend a ear ; the lady thus he hear reproach she child : you be clearly wrong ; most silly may be style ; I have many simpleton and ninny see ; but such as you before there ne'er have be : who would have believe you indiscreet like this ? who force you to reveal what be amiss ? what obligation to divulge the fact ? more girl than one have fail to be exact ; the Devil 's crafty ; folk be wicked too ; but that be no excuse , however true ; in convent all of we should be immure , till perfectly by Hymen 's band secure . E ` en I who speak , alas ! have trouble meet ; within my bosom oft I feel regret ; three child ere my marriage I have get ; have I you father tell this secret blot ? Have we together be less happy find ? the list ` ner have no sooner hear the sound , but like a man distract off he fly ; the saddle 's girth , which hazard near he throw ; he take and fasten tightly ` bout he waist , then bawl around and round with anxious haste ; I be girth would ! d'ye see , completely take in ; the people stare , a ` gan to laugh and grin . though each be conscious , if the truth be know ; the ridicule in turn might be he own . both husband madly run from cross to square , and with they foolish clamor rent the air ; I be saddle , hoot one ; I be girth 'd , say this ; the latter some perhaps will doubt , and hiss ; such thing however should not be disbelieve for instance , recollect -lrb-B- what be well receive -rrb-B- , when Roland learn the pleasure and the charm ; he rival , in the grot , have in he arm , with fist he give he horse so hard a blow , it sink at once to realm of poignant woe . Might he not , training , round the hapless beast , from weight of saddle have its back release , and put it upon he own , have cry , I be saddle , I be girth 'd , and much beside ; -lrb-B- no matter this or that , since each be good , -rrb-B- which Echo would repeat from hill to wood ? you see that truth may be discover here ; that be not enough ; its object should appear ; and that I 'll show as further we proceed ; you full attention I of course shall need . the happy Damon clearly seem to I , as poor a thing as any we shall see ; he confidence would soon have spoil the whole , to leave a belle like this without control ! she simplicity I much admire : -- Confess herself to spouse , as if a friar ! what silliness ! imprudence be a word , which here to use would truly be absurd . to my discourse two head alone remain ; the marriage vow you always should maintain ; its faith the pair should ever keep in view : the path of honor steadily pursue . if some mishap howe'er should chance to glide ; and make you limp on one or t ` other side , Endeavour , of the fault , to make the best , and keep the secret lock within you breast ; you own consideration never lose ; Untruth ` tis pardonable then to use . no doubt my page nice advice supply ; be ` t what I have follow ? -- No , you may rely !