94 the Peasant 's Wise Daughter BrothersS Grimm there be once a poor peasant who have no land , but only a small house , and one daughter . then say the daughter , `` we ought to ask we lord the King for a bit of newly-cleared land . '' when the King hear of they poverty , he present they with a piece of land , which she and she father dig up , and intend to sow with a little corn and grain of that kind . when they have dig nearly the whole of the field , they find in the earth a mortar make of pure gold . `` listen , '' say the father to the girl , `` as we lord the King have be so gracious and present we with the field , we ought to give he this mortar in return for it . '' the daughter , however , would not consent to this , and say , `` Father , if we have the mortar without have the pestle as well , we shall have to get the pestle , so you have much better say nothing about it . '' he would , however , not obey she , but take the mortar and carry it to the King , say that he have find it in the clear land , and ask if he would accept it as a present . the King take the mortar , and ask if he have find nothing besides that ? `` no , '' answer the countryman . then the King say that he must now bring he the pestle . the peasant say they have not find that , but he might just as well have speak to the wind ; he be put in prison , and be to stay there until he produce the pestle . the servant have daily to carry he bread and water , which be what people get in prison , and they hear how the man cry out continually , `` ah ! if I have but listen to my daughter ! Alas , alas , if I have but listen to my daughter ! '' and would neither eat nor drink . so he command the servant to bring the prisoner before he , and then the King ask the peasant why he be always cry , `` ah ! if I have but listen to my daughter ! '' and what it be that he daughter have say . `` she tell I that I ought not to take the mortar to you , for I should have to produce the pestle as well . '' `` if you have a daughter who be as wise as that , let she come here . '' she be therefore oblige to appear before the King , who ask she if she really be so wise , and say he would set she a riddle , and if she could guess that , he would marry she . she at once say yes , she would guess it . then say the King , `` come to I not clothe , not naked , not ride , not walk , not in the road , and not out of the road , and if thou canst do that I will marry thee . '' so she go away , put off everything she have on , and then she be not clothe , and take a great fishing net , and seat herself in it and wrap it entirely round and round she , so that she be not naked , and she hire a ass , and tie the fisherman 's net to its tail , so that it be force to drag she along , and that be neither ride nor walk . the ass have also to drag she in the rut , so that she only touch the ground with she great toe , and that be neither be in the road nor out of the road . and when she arrive in that fashion , the King say she have guess the riddle and fulfil all the condition . then he order she father to be release from the prison , take she to wife , and give into she care all the royal possession . now when some year have pass , the King be once draw up he troops on parade , when it happen that some peasant who have be sell wood stop with they waggon before the palace ; some of they have oxen yoke to they , and some horse . there be one peasant who have three horse , one of which be deliver of a young foal , and it run away and lay down between two ox which be in front of the waggon . when the peasant come together , they begin to dispute , to beat each other and make a disturbance , and the peasant with the ox want to keep the foal , and say one of the ox have give birth to it , and the other say he horse have have it , and that it be he . the quarrel come before the King , and he give the verdict that the foal should stay where it have be find , and so the peasant with the ox , to whom it do not belong , get it . then the other go away , and weep and lament over he foal . now he have hear how gracious he lady the Queen be because she herself have spring from poor peasant folk , so he go to she and beg she to see if she could not help he to get he foal back again . Said she , `` yes , I will tell you what to do , if thou wilt promise I not to betray I . early to-morrow morning , when the King parade the guard , place thyself there in the middle of the road by which he must pass , take a great fishing-net and pretend to be fishing ; go on fishing , too , and empty out the net as if thou hadst get it full '' and then she tell he also what he be to say if he be question by the King . the next day , therefore , the peasant stand there , and fish on dry ground . when the King pass by , and see that , he send he messenger to ask what the stupid man be about ? he answer , `` I be fishing . '' the messenger ask how he could fish when there be no water there ? the peasant say , `` it be as easy for I to fish on dry land as it be for a ox to have a foal . '' the messenger go back and take the answer to the King , who order the peasant to be bring to he and tell he that this be not he own idea , and he want to know whose it be ? the peasant must confess this at once . the peasant , however , would not do so , and say always , God forbid he should ! the idea be he own . they lay he , however , on a heap of straw , and beat he and torment he so long that at last he admit that he have get the idea from the Queen . when the King reach home again , he say to he wife , `` why hast thou behave so falsely to I ? I will not have thee any longer for a wife ; thy time be up , go back to the place from whence thou camest to thy peasant 's hut . '' one favor , however , he grant she ; she might take with she the one thing that be dearest and best in she eye ; and thus be she dismiss . she say , `` yes , my dear husband , if you command this , I will do it , '' and she embrace he and kiss he , and say she would take leave of he . then she order a powerful sleeping draught to be bring , to drink farewell to he ; the King take a long draught , but she take only a little . he soon fall into a deep sleep , and when she perceive that , she call a servant and take a fair white linen cloth and wrap the King in it , and the servant be force to carry he into a carriage that stand before the door , and she drive with he to she own little house . she lay he in she own little bed , and he sleep one day and one night without awaken , and when he awake he look round and say , `` Good God ! where be I ? '' he call he attendant , but none of they be there . at length he wife come to he bedside and say , `` my dear lord and King , you tell I I might bring away with I from the palace that which be dearest and most precious in my eye I have nothing more precious and dear than yourself , so I have bring you with I . '' tear rise to the King 's eye and he say , `` dear wife , thou shalt be mine and I will be thine , '' and he take she back with he to the royal palace and be marry again to she , and at the present time they be very likely still live .