the child in the GRAVE . H. C. Andersen there be mourn in the house , sorrow in every heart . the youngest child , a boy four year old , the joy and hope of he parent , have die . there still remain to they two daughter , the elder of whom be about to be confirm -- good , charming girl both ; but the child that one have lose always seem the dearest ; and here it be the youngest , and a son . it be a heavy trial . the sister mourn as young heart can , and be especially move at the sight of they parent ' sorrow . the father be bow down , and the mother completely strike down by the great grief . Day and night she have be busy about the sick child , and have tend , lift , and carry it ; she have feel how it be a part of herself . she could not realize that the child be dead , and that it must be lay in a coffin and sleep in the ground . she think God _ could not _ take this child from she ; and when it be so , nevertheless , and there could be no more doubt on the subject , she say in she feverish pain : `` God do not know it . he have heartless servant here on earth , who do accord to they own liking , and hear not the prayer of a mother . '' in she grief she fall away from God , and then there come dark thought , thought of death , of everlasting death , that man be but dust in the dust , and that with this life all be end . but these thought give she no stay , nothing on which she could take hold ; and she sink into the fathomless abyss of despair . in she heaviest hour she could weep no more , and she think not of the young daughter who be still leave to she . the tear of she husband fall upon she forehead , but she do not look at he . she thought be with the dead child ; she whole thought and be be fix upon it , to call back every remembrance of the little one , every innocent childish word it have utter . the day of the funeral come . for night before the mother have not sleep ; but in the morning twilight she now sleep , overcome by weariness ; and in the meantime the coffin be carry into a distant room , and there nail down , that she might not hear the blow of the hammer . when she awake , and want to see she child , the husband say , `` we have nail down the coffin . it be necessary to do so . '' `` when God be hard towards I , how should man be better ? '' she say , with sob and groan . the coffin be carry to the grave . the disconsolate mother sit with she young daughter . she look at she daughter , and yet do not see they , for she thought be no longer busy at the domestic hearth . she give herself up to she grief , and grief toss she to and fro as the sea toss a ship without compass or rudder . so the day of the funeral pass away , and similar day follow , of dark , weary pain . with moist eye and mournful glance , the sorrow daughter and the afflict husband look upon she who would not hear they word of comfort ; and , indeed , what word of comfort could they speak to she , when they themselves be heavily bow down ? it seem as though she know sleep no more ; and yet he would now have be she best friend , who would have strengthen she body , and pour peace into she soul . they persuade she to seek she couch , and she lay still there , like one who sleep . one night she husband be listen , as he often do , to she breathing , and fully believe that she have now find rest and relief . he fold he arm and pray , and soon sink into a deep healthy sleep ; and thus he do not notice that he wife rise , throw on she clothes , and silently glide from the house , to go where she thought always linger -- to the grave which hold she child . she step through the garden of the house , and over the field , where a path lead to the churchyard . no one see she on she walk -- she have see nobody , for she eye be fix upon the one goal of she journey . it be a lovely starlight night ; the air be still mild ; it be in the beginning of September . she enter the churchyard , and stand by the little grave , which look like a great nosegay of fragrant flower . she sit down , and bow she head low over the grave , as if she could have see she child through the intervene earth , she little boy , whose smile rise so vividly before she -- the gentle expression of whose eye , even on the sick bed , she could never forget . how eloquent have that glance be , when she have bent over he , and seize he delicate hand , which he have no longer strength to raise ! as she have sit by he crib , so she now sit by he grave , but here she tear have free course , and fall thick upon the grave . `` Thou wouldst gladly go down and be with thy child , '' say a voice quite close to she , a voice that sound so clear and deep , it go straight to she heart . she look up ; and near she stand a man wrap in a black cloak , with a hood draw closely down over he face . but she glance keenly up , and see he face under he hood . it be stern , but yet awaken confidence , and he eye beam with the radiance of youth . `` down to my child ! '' she repeat ; and a despairing supplication speak out of she word . `` Darest thou follow I ? '' ask the form . `` I be Death . '' and she bow she head in acquiescence . then suddenly it seem as though all the star be shine with the radiance of the full moon ; she see the varied color of the flower on the grave , and the covering of earth be gradually withdraw like a floating drapery ; and she sink down , and the apparition cover she with a black cloak ; night close around she , the night of death , and she sink deeper than the sexton 's spade can penetrate ; and the churchyard be as a roof over she head . a corner of the cloak be remove , and she stand in a great hall which spread wide and pleasantly around . it be twilight . but in a moment she child appear , and be press to she heart , smile at she in greater beauty than he have ever possess . she utter a cry , but it be inaudible . a glorious swell strain of music sound in the distance , and then near to she , and then again in the distance : never have such tone fall on she ear ; they come from beyond the great dark curtain which separate the hall from the great land of eternity beyond . `` my sweet darling mother , '' she hear she child say . it be the well-known , much-loved voice , and kiss follow kiss in boundless felicity ; and the child point to the dark curtain . `` it be not so beautiful on earth . do you see , mother -- do you see they all ? oh , that be happiness ! '' -lrb-B- illustration : the MOTHER AT the GRAVE . aaaaa -rrb-B- aaa but the mother see nothing which the child point out -- nothing but the dark night . she look with earthly eye , and could not see as the child saw , which God have call to himself . she could hear the sound of the music , but she hear not the word -- _ the Word _ in which she be to believe . `` now I can fly , mother -- I can fly with all the other happy child into the presence of the Almighty . I would fain fly ; but , if you weep as you be weep now , I might be lose to you -- and yet I would go so gladly . May I not fly ? and you will come to I soon -- will you not , dear mother ? '' `` oh , stay ! stay ! '' entreat the mother . `` only one moment more -- only once more I should wish to look at thee , and kiss thee , and press thee in my arm . '' and she kiss and fondle the child . then she name be call from above -- call in a plaintive voice . what might this mean ? `` hearest thou ? '' ask the child . `` it be my father who call thee . '' and in a few moment deep sigh be hear , as of weep child . `` they be my sister , '' say the child . `` Mother , you surely have not forget they ? '' and then she remember those she have leave behind . a great terror come upon she . she look out into the night , and above she dim form be flit past . she seem to recognize a few more of these . they float through the Hall of Death towards the dark curtain , and there they vanish . would she husband and she daughter thus flit past ? no , they sigh and lamentation still sound from above : -- and she have be nearly forget they for the sake of he who be dead ! `` Mother , now the bell of heaven be ring , '' say the child . `` Mother , now the sun be go to rise . '' and a overpower light stream in upon she . the child have vanish , and she be bear upwards . it become cold round about she , and she lift up she head , and see that she be lie in the churchyard , on the grave of she child . but the Lord have be a stay unto she foot , in a dream , and a light to she spirit ; and she bow she knee and pray for forgiveness that she have wish to keep back a soul from its immortal flight , and that she have forget she duty towards the living who be leave to she . and when she have speak those word , it be as if she heart be lighten . then the sun burst forth , and over she head a little bird sing out , and the church bell sound for early service . everything be holy around she , and she heart be chasten . she acknowledge the goodness of God , she acknowledge the duty she have to perform , and eagerly she go home . she bent over she husband , who still sleep ; she warm devoted kiss awaken he , and heart-felt word of love come from the lip of both . and she be gentle and strong , as a wife can be ; and from she come the consoling word , `` God 's will be always the best . '' then she husband ask she , `` from whence hast thou all at once derive this strength -- this feeling of consolation ? '' and she kiss he , and kiss she child , and say , `` they come from God , through the child in the grave . ''