the story of the OLD MAN who make withered tree to FLOWER . Japanese Writer Long , long ago there live a old man and he wife who support themselves by cultivate a small plot of land . they life have be a very happy and peaceful one save for one great sorrow , and this be they have no child . they only pet be a dog name Shiro , and on he they lavish all the affection of they old age . indeed , they love he so much that whenever they have anything nice to eat they deny themselves to give it to Shiro . now Shiro mean `` white , '' and he be so call because of he color . he be a real japanese dog , and very like a small wolf in appearance . the happiest hour of the day both for the old man and he dog be when the man return from he work in the field , and have finish he frugal supper of rice and vegetable , would take what he have save from the meal out to the little veranda that run round the cottage . sure enough , Shiro be wait for he master and the evening tit-bit . then the old man say `` Chin , chin ! '' and Shiro sit up and beg , and he master give he the food . next door to this good old couple there live another old man and he wife who be both wicked and cruel , and who hate they good neighbor and the dog shiro with all they might . Whenever Shiro happen to look into they kitchen they at once kick he or throw something at he , sometimes even wound he . one day Shiro be hear bark for a long time in the field at the back of he master 's house . the old man , think that perhaps some bird be attack the corn , hurry out to see what be the matter . as soon as Shiro see he master he run to meet he , wag he tail , and , seize the end of he kimono , drag he under a large yenokus tree . here he begin to dig very industriously with he paw , yelp with joy all the time . the old man , unable to understand what it all mean , stand look on in bewilderment . but Shiro go on bark and digging with all he might . the thought that something might be hide beneath the tree , and that the dog have scented it , at last strike the old man . he run back to the house , fetch he spade and begin to dig the ground at that spot . what be he astonishment when , after digging for some time , he come upon a heap of old and valuable coin , and the deeper he dig the more gold coin do he find . so intent be the old man on he work that he never see the cross face of he neighbor peer at he through the bamboo hedge . at last all the gold coin lay shine on the ground . Shiro sit by erect with pride and look fondly at he master as if to say , `` you see , though only a dog , I can make some return for all the kindness you show I . '' the old man run in to call he wife , and together they carry home the treasure . thus in one day the poor old man become rich . he gratitude to the faithful dog know no bound , and he love and pet he more than ever , if that be possible . the cross old neighbor , attract by Shiro 's bark , have be a unseen and envious witness of the finding of the treasure . he begin to think that he , too , would like to find a fortune . so a few day later he call at the old man 's house and very ceremoniously ask permission to borrow Shiro for a short time . Shiro 's master think this a strange request , because he know quite well that not only do he neighbor not love he pet dog , but that he never lose a opportunity of striking and torment he whenever the dog cross he path . but the good old man be too kind-hearted to refuse he neighbor , so he consent to lend the dog on condition that he should be take great care of . the wicked old man return to he home with a evil smile on he face , and tell he wife how he have succeed in he crafty intention . he then take he spade and hasten to he own field , force the unwilling Shiro to follow he . as soon as he reach a yenoki tree , he say to the dog , threateningly : `` if there be gold coin under you master 's tree , there must also be gold coin under my tree . you must find they for I ! where be they ? where ? where ? '' and catch hold of Shiro 's neck he hold the dog 's head to the ground , so that Shiro begin to scratch and dig in order to free himself from the horrid old man 's grasp . the old man be very pleased when he see the dog begin to scratch and dig , for he at once suppose that some gold coin lay bury under he tree as well as under he neighbor 's , and that the dog have scented they as before ; so push Shiro away he begin to dig himself , but there be nothing to be find . as he go on digging a foul smell be noticeable , and he at last come upon a refuse heap . the old man 's disgust can be imagine . this soon give way to anger . he have see he neighbor 's good fortune , and hope for the same luck himself , he have borrow the dog Shiro ; and now , just as he seem on the point of find what he seek , only a horrid smell refuse heap have reward he for a morning 's digging . instead of blame he own greed for he disappointment , he blame the poor dog . he seize he spade , and with all he strength strike Shiro and kill he on the spot . he then throw the dog 's body into the hole which he have dig in the hope of find a treasure of gold coin , and cover it over with the earth . then he return to the house , tell no one , not even he wife , what be have do . after wait several day , as the dog Shiro do not return , he master begin to grow anxious . Day after day go by and the good old man wait in vain . then he go to he neighbor and ask he to give he back he dog . without any shame or hesitation , the wicked neighbor answer that he have kill Shiro because of he bad behavior . at this dreadful news Shiro 's master weep many sad and bitter tear . Great indeed , be he woful surprise , but he be too good and gentle to reproach he bad neighbor . Learning that Shiro be bury under the yenoki tree in the field , he ask the old man to give he the tree , in remembrance of he poor dog Shiro . even the cross old neighbor could not refuse such a simple request , so he consent to give the old man the tree under which Shiro lay bury . Shiro 's master then cut the tree down and carry it home . out of the trunk he make a mortar . in this he wife put some rice , and he begin to pound it with the intention of make a festival to the memory of he dog Shiro . a strange thing happen ! he wife put the rice into the mortar , and no sooner have he begin to pound it to make the cake , than it begin to increase in quantity gradually till it be about five time the original amount , and the cake be turn out of the mortar as if a invisible hand be at work . when the old man and he wife see this , they understand that it be a reward to they from Shiro for they faithful love to he . they taste the cake and find they nicer than any other food . so from this time they never trouble about food , for they live upon the cake with which the mortar never cease to supply they . the greedy neighbor , hearing of this new piece of good luck , be fill with envy as before , and call on the old man and ask leave to borrow the wonderful mortar for a short time , pretend that he , too , sorrow for the death of Shiro , and wish to make cake for a festival to the dog 's memory . the old man do not in the least wish to lend it to he cruel neighbor , but he be too kind to refuse . so the envious man carry home the mortar , but he never bring it back . several day pass , and Shiro 's master wait in vain for the mortar , so he go to call on the borrower , and ask he to be good enough to return the mortar if he have finish with it . he find he sit by a big fire make of piece of wood . on the ground lay what look very much like piece of a broken mortar . in answer to the old man 's inquiry , the wicked neighbor answer haughtily : `` Have you come to ask I for you mortar ? I break it to piece , and now I be make a fire of the wood , for when I try to pound cake in it only some horrid smell stuff come out . '' the good old man say : `` I be very sorry for that . it be a great pity you do not ask I for the cake if you want they . I would have give you as many as ever you want . now please give I the ash of the mortar , as I wish to keep they in remembrance of my dog . '' the neighbor consent at once , and the old man carry home a basket full of ash . not long after this the old man accidentally scatter some of the ash make by the burning of the mortar on the tree of he garden . a wonderful thing happen ! it be late in autumn and all the tree have shed they leaf , but no sooner do the ash touch they branch than the cherry tree , the plum tree , and all other blossom shrub burst into bloom , so that the old man 's garden be suddenly transform into a beautiful picture of spring . the old man 's delight know no bound , and he carefully preserve the remain ash . the story of the old man 's garden spread far and wide , and people from far and near come to see the wonderful sight . one day , soon after this , the old man hear some one knock at he door , and go to the porch to see who it be he be surprise to see a Knight standing there . this Knight tell he that he be a retainer of a great Daimio -lrb-B- Earl -rrb-B- ; that one of the favorite cherry tree in this nobleman 's garden have wither , and that though every one in he service have try all manner of means to revive it , none take effect . the Knight be sore perplex when he see what great displeasure the loss of he favorite cherry tree cause the Daimio . at this point , fortunately , they have hear that there be a wonderful old man who could make withered tree to blossom , and that he Lord have send he to ask the old man to come to he . `` and , '' add the Knight , `` I shall be very much oblige if you will come at once . '' the good old man be greatly surprise at what he hear , but respectfully follow the Knight to the nobleman 's Palace . the Daimio , who have be impatiently await the old man 's come , as soon as he see he ask he at once : `` be you the old man who can make withered tree flower even out of season ? '' the old man make a obeisance , and reply : `` I be that old man ! '' then the Daimio say : `` you must make that dead cherry tree in my garden blossom again by means of you famous ash . I shall look on . '' then they all go into the garden -- the Daimio and he retainer and the ladies-in waiting , who carry the Daimio 's sword . the old man now tuck up he kimono and make ready to climb the tree . say `` excuse I , '' he take the pot of ash which he have bring with he , and begin to climb the tree , every one watch he movement with great interest . at last he climb to the spot where the tree divide into two great branch , and take up he position here , the old man sit down and scatter the ash right and leave all over the branch and twig . wonderful , indeed , be the result ! the withered tree at once burst into full bloom ! the Daimio be so transport with joy that he look as if he would go mad . he rise to he foot and spread out he fan , call the old man down from the tree . he himself give the old man a wine cup fill with the best sake , and reward he with much silver and gold and many other precious thing . the Daimio order that henceforth the old man should call himself by the name of Hana - Saka-Jijii , or `` the Old man who make the Trees to Blossom , '' and that henceforth all be to recognize he by this name , and he send he home with great honor . the wicked neighbor , as before , hear of the good old man 's fortune , and of all that have so auspiciously befall he , and he could not suppress all the envy and jealousy that fill he heart . he call to mind how he have fail in he attempt to find the gold coin , and then in make the magic cake ; this time surely he must succeed if he imitate the old man , who make withered tree to flower simply by sprinkle ash on they . this would be the simplest task of all . so he set to work and gather together all the ash which remain in the fire-place from the burning of the wonderful mortar . then he set out in the hope of find some great man to employ he , call out loudly as he go along : `` here come the wonderful man who can make withered tree blossom ! here come the old man who can make dead tree blossom ! '' the Daimio in he Palace hear this cry , and say : `` that must be the Hana-Saka-Jijii passing . I have nothing to do to - day . let he try he art again ; it will amuse I to look on . '' so the retainer go out and bring in the impostor before they Lord . the satisfaction of false old man can now be imagine . but the Daimio look at he , think it strange that he be not at all like the old man he have see before , so he ask he : `` be you the man whom I name Hana-Saka-Jijii ? '' and the envious neighbor answer with a lie : `` yes , my Lord ! '' `` that be strange ! '' say the Daimio . `` I think there be only one Hana-Saka-Jijii in the world ! have he now some disciple ? '' `` I be the true Hana-Saka-Jijii . the one who come to you before be only my disciple ! '' reply the old man again . `` then you must be more skillful than the other . try what you can do and let I see ! '' the envious neighbor , with the Daimio and he Court following , then go into the garden , and approach a dead tree , take out a handful of the ash which he carry with he , and scatter they over the tree . but not only do the tree not burst into flower , but not even a bud come forth . think that he have not use enough ash , the old man take handful and again sprinkle they over the withered tree . but all to no effect . after try several time , the ash be blow into the Daimio 's eye . this make he very angry , and he order he retainer to arrest the false Hana-Saka-Jijii at once and put he in prison for a impostor . from this imprisonment the wicked old man be never free . thus do he meet with punishment at last for all he evil doings . the good old man , however , with the treasure of gold coin which Shiro have find for he , and with all the gold and the silver which the Daimio have shower on he , become a rich and prosperous man in he old age , and live a long and happy life , beloved and respect by all .