the FOURTH VOYAGE of SINBAD the SAILOR . Arabian Writer the pleasure I take after my third voyage have not charm enough to divert I from another . I be again prevail upon by my passion for traffic and curiosity to see new thing . I therefore settle my affair , and have provide a stock of goods fit for the place where I design to trade , I set out on my journey . I take the way of Persia , of which I travel over several province , and then arrive at a port , where I embark . we set sail , and have touch at several port of the mainland and some of the eastern island , we put out to sea , and be overtake by a sudden gust of wind that oblige the captain to furl he sail , and to take all other necessary precaution to prevent the danger that threaten we . but all be in vain ; we endeavor have no effect , the sail be tear into a thousand piece , and the ship be strand ; so that a great many of the merchant and seaman be drown , and the cargo lose . I have the good fortune , with several of the merchant and mariner , to get a plank , and we be carry by the current to a island which lay before we : there we find fruit and spring water , which preserve we life . we stay all night near the place where the sea cast we ashore , without consult what we should do , we misfortune have dispirit we so much . next morning , as soon as the sun be up , we walk from the shore , and advance into the island , see some house , to which we go ; and as soon as we come thither we be encompass by a great number of black man , who seize we , share we among they , and carry we to they respective habitation . I and five of my comrade be carry to one place ; they make we sit down immediately , and give we a certain herb , which they make sign to we to eat . my comrade , not take notice that the black man eat none of it themselves , consult only the satisfying of they own hunger , and fall to eat with greediness : but I , suspect some trick , would not so much as taste it , which happen well for I ; for in a little time I perceive my companion have lose they sens , and that when they speak to I they know not what they say . the black man feed we afterwards with rice , prepare with oil of cocoanut , and my comrade , who have lose they reason , eat of it greedily . I eat of it also , but very sparingly . the black man give we that herb at first on purpose to deprive we of we sens , that we might not be aware of the sad destiny prepare for we ; and they give we rice on purpose to fatten we , for , be cannibal , they design be to eat we as soon as we grow fat . they do accordingly eat my comrade , who be not aware of they condition ; but my sens be entire , you may easily guess that instead of grow fat , as the rest do , I grow leaner every day . the fear of death under which I labor turn all my food into poison . I fall into a languish illness which prove my safety , for the black man have kill and eat up my companion , see I to be withered , lean , and sick , deferred my death till another time . meanwhile , I have a great deal of liberty , so that there be scarcely any notice take of what I do , and this give I a opportunity one day to get at a distance from the house , and to make my escape . a old man who see I , and suspect my design , call to I as loud as he could to return , but instead of obey he , I redouble my pace , and quickly get out of sight . at that time there be none but the old man about the house , the rest be away , and not to come home till night , which be pretty usual with they ; therefore , be sure that they could not come in time to pursue I , I go on till night , when I stop to rest a little , and to eat some of the provision I have take care to bring ; but I speedily set forward again , and travel seven day , avoid those place which seem to be inhabit , and live for the most part upon cocoanut , which serve I for both meat and drink . on the eighth day I come near the sea , and all of a sudden saw white people like myself , gather pepper , of which there be great plenty in that place . this I take to be a good omen , and go to they without any scruple . the people who gather pepper come to meet I as soon as they see I , and ask I in Arabic who I be , and whence I come . I be overjoy to hear they speak in my own language , and satisfy they curiosity by give they a account of my shipwreck , and how I fall into the hand of the black man . ` those black man , ' reply they , ` be cannibal , and by what miracle do you escape they cruelty ? ' I tell they the same story I now tell you , at which they be wonderfully surprised . I stay with they till they have gather they quantity of pepper , and then sail with they to the island from whence they come . they present I to they king , who be a good prince . he have the patience to hear the relation of my adventure , which surprise he , and he afterwards give I clothes , and command care to be take of I . the island be very well peopled , plentiful in everything , and the capital be a place of great trade . this agreeable retreat be very comfortable to I after my misfortune , and the kindness of this generous prince towards I complete my satisfaction . in a word , there be not a person more in favor with he than myself ; and , in consequence , every man in court and city seek to oblige I , so that in a very little time I be look upon rather as a native than a stranger . I observe one thing which to I appear very extraordinary . all the people , the king himself not except , ride they horse without bridle or stirrup . this make I one day take the liberty to ask the king how that come to pass . he majesty answer , that I talk to he of thing which nobody know the use of in he dominion . I go immediately to a workman , and give he a model for make the stock of a saddle . when that be do , I cover it myself with velvet and leather , and embroider it with gold . I afterwards go to a locksmith , who make I a bridle accord to the pattern I show he , and then he make I also some stirrup . when I have all thing complete , I present they to the king , and put they upon one of he horse . he majesty mount immediately , and be so pleased with they , that he testify he satisfaction by large present to I . I could not avoid make several other for he minister and the principal officer of he household , who all of they make I present that enrich I in a little time . I also make some for the people of best quality in the city , which gain I great reputation and regard . as I pay court very constantly to the king , he say to I one day , ` Sinbad , I love thee ; and all my subject who know thee treat thee accord to my example . I have one thing to demand of thee , which thou must grant . ' ` Sir , ' answer I , ` there be nothing but I will do , as a mark of my obedience to you majesty , whose power over I be absolute . ' ` I have a mind thou shouldst marry , ' reply he , ` that so thou mayst stay in my dominion , and think no more of thy own country . ' I dare not resist the prince 's will , and so he give I one of the lady of he court , a noble , beautiful , and rich lady . the ceremony of marriage be over , I go and dwell with the lady , and for some time we live together in perfect harmony . I be not , however , very well satisfy with my condition , and therefore design to make my escape on the first occasion , and to return to Bagdad , which my present settlement , how advantageous soever , could not make I forget . while I be think on this , the wife of one of my neighbor , with whom I have contract a very close friendship , fall sick and die . I go to see and comfort he in he affliction , and find he swallow up with sorrow , I say to he as soon as I see he , ` God preserve you and grant you a long life . ' ` alas ! ' reply he , ` how do you think I should obtain that favor you wish I ? I have not above a hour to live . ' ` pray , ' say I , ` do not entertain such a melancholy thought ; I hope it will not be so , but that I shall enjoy you company for many year . ' ` I wish you , ' say he , ` a long life ; but for I my day be at a end , for I must be bury this day with my wife . this be a law which we ancestor establish in this island , and always observe inviolably . the living husband be inter with the dead wife , and the living wife with the dead husband . nothing can save I ; every one must submit to this law . ' while he be entertaining I with a account of this barbarous custom , the very hearing of which frighten I cruelly , he kindred , friend and neighbor come in a body to assist at the funeral . they put on the corpse the woman 's richest apparel , as if it have be she wedding-day , and dress she with all she jewel ; then they put she into a open coffin , and lift it up , begin they march to the place of burial . the husband walk at the head of the company , and follow the corpse . they go up to a high mountain , and when they come thither , take up a great stone , which cover the mouth of a very deep pit , and let down the corpse , with all its apparel and jewel . then the husband , embrace he kindred and friend , suffer himself to be put into another open coffin without resistance , with a pot of water , and seven little loaf , and be let down in the same manner as they let down he wife . the mountain be pretty long , and reach to the sea . the ceremony be over , they cover the hole again with the stone , and return . it be needless to say that I be the only melancholy spectator of this funeral , whereas the rest be scarcely move at it , the practice be so customary to they . I could not forbear speak my thought on this matter to the king . ` Sir , ' say I , ` I can not but wonder at the strange custom in this country of bury the living with the dead . I have be a great traveller , and see many country , but never hear of so cruel a law . ' ` what do you mean , Sinbad ? ' say the king ; ` it be a common law . I shall be inter with the queen , my wife , if she die first . ' ` but , sir , ' say I , ` may I presume to ask you majesty if stranger be oblige to observe this law ? ' ` without doubt , ' reply the king , smile at my question ; ` they be not exempt , if they be marry in this island . ' I go home very melancholy at this answer , for the fear of my wife die first , and my be interred alive with she , occasion I very mortifying reflection . but there be no remedy : I must have patience , and submit to the will of God . I tremble , however , at every little indisposition of my wife ; but alas ! in a little time my fear come upon I all at once , for she fall ill , and die in a few day . you may judge of my sorrow ; to be inter alive seem to I as deplorable a end as to be devour by cannibal . but I must submit ; the king and all he court would honor the funeral with they presence , and the most considerable people of the city would do the like . when all be ready for the ceremony , the corpse be put into a coffin , with all she jewel and magnificent apparel . the cavalcade begin , and , as second actor in this doleful tragedy , I go next to the corpse , with my eye full of tear , bewail my deplorable fate . before I come to the mountain , I address myself to the king , in the first place , and then to all those who be round I , and bow before they to the earth to kiss the border of they garment , I pray they to have compassion upon I . ` consider , ' say I , ` that I be a stranger , and ought not to be subject to this rigorous law , and that I have another wife and child in my own country . ' it be to no purpose for I to speak thus , no soul be move at it ; on the contrary , they make haste to let down my wife 's corpse into the pit , and put I down the next moment in a open coffin , with a vessel full of water and seven loaf . in short , the fatal ceremony be perform , they cover up the mouth of the pit , notwithstanding the excess of my grief and my lamentable cry . as I come near the bottom , I discover , by help of the little light that come from above , the nature of this subterranean place ; it be a vast long cave , and might be about fifty fathom deep . I immediately smell a insufferable stench proceeding from the multitude of corpse which I see on the right and leave ; nay , I fancy that I hear some of they sigh out they last . however , when I get down , I immediately leave my coffin , and , get at a distance from the corpse , lay down upon the ground , where I stay a long time , bath in tear . then reflect on my sad lot , ` it be true , ' say I , ` that God dispose all thing accord to the decree of he providence ; but , poor Sinbad , art not thou thyself the cause of thy be bring to die so strange a death ? would to God thou hadst perish in some of those tempest which thou hast escape ! then thy death have not be so linger and terrible in all its circumstance . but thou hast draw all this upon thyself by thy cursed avarice . ah ! unfortunate wretch , shouldst thou not rather have stay at home , and quietly enjoy the fruit of thy labor ? ' such be the vain complaint with which I make the cave echo , beat my head and breast out of rage and despair , and abandon myself to the most afflicting thought . nevertheless , I must tell you that , instead of call death to my assistance in that miserable condition , I feel still a inclination to live , and to do all I could to prolong my day . I go grope about , with my nose stop , for the bread and water that be in my coffin , and take some of it . though the darkness of the cave be so great that I could not distinguish day and night , yet I always find my coffin again , and the cave seem to be more spacious and fuller of corpse than it appear to I at first . I live for some day upon my bread and water , which be all use up at last I prepare for death . as I be think of death , I hear something walking , and blow or pant as it walk . I advance towards that side from whence I hear the noise , and upon my approach the thing puff and blow harder , as if it have be run away from I . I follow the noise , and the thing seem to stop sometimes , but always flee and blow as I approach . I follow it so long and so far that at last I perceive a light resemble a star ; I go on towards that light , and sometimes lose sight of it , but always find it again , and at last discover that it come through a hole in the rock large enough for a man to get out at . upon this I stop some time to rest myself , be much fatigue with pursue this discovery so fast . afterwards come up to the hole I go out at it , and find myself upon the shore of the sea . I leave you to guess the excess of my joy ; it be such that I could scarce persuade myself of its be real . but when I have recover from my surprise , and be convince of the truth of the matter , I find that the thing which I have follow and hear puff and blow be a creature which come out of the sea , and be accustom to enter at that hole to feed upon the dead carcass . I examine the mountain , and perceive it to be situate betwixt the sea and the town , but without any passage or way to communicate with the latter , the rock on the side of the sea be so rugged and steep . I fall down upon the shore to thank God for this mercy , and afterwards enter the cave again to fetch bread and water , which I do by daylight , with a better appetite than I have do since my interment in the dark hole . I return thither again , and grope about among the bier for all the diamond , ruby , pearl , gold bracelet , and rich stuff I could find . these I bring to the shore , and , tie they up neatly into bale with the cord that let down the coffin , I lay they together upon the bank to wait till some ship pass by , without fear of rain , for it be not then the season . after two or three day I perceive a ship that have but just come out of the harbor and pass near the place where I be . I make a sign with the linen of my turban , and call to they as loud as I could . they hear I , and send a boat to bring I on board , when the mariner ask by what misfortune I come thither . I tell they that I have suffer shipwreck two day ago , and make shift to get ashore with the goods they see . it be happy for I that those people do not consider the place where I be , nor inquire into the probability of what I tell they ; but without any more ado take I on board with my goods . when I come to the ship , the captain be so well pleased to have save I , and so much take up with he own affair , that he also take the story of my pretended shipwreck upon trust , and generously refuse some jewel which I offer he . we pass with a regular wind by several island , among other the one call the Isle of Bells , about ten day ' sail from Serendib , and six from that of Kela , where we land . this island produce lead from its mine , indian cane , and excellent camphor . the king of the Isle of Kela be very rich and potent , and the Isle of Bells , which be about two day ' journey in extent , be also subject to he . the inhabitant be so barbarous that they still eat human flesh . after we have finish we commerce in that island we put to sea again , and touch at several other port . at last I arrive happily at Bagdad with infinite riches , of which it be needless to trouble you with the detail . out of thankfulness to God for he mercy , I give great alms for the support of several mosque , and for the subsistence of the poor , and employ myself wholly in enjoy the society of my kindred and friend , and in make merry with they .