17 the White Snake BrothersS Grimm by BrothersS Grimm a long time ago there live a king who be fame for he wisdom through all the land . nothing be hide from he , and it seem as if news of the most secret thing be bring to he through the air . but he have a strange custom ; every day after dinner , when the table be clear , and no one else be present , a trusty servant have to bring he one more dish . it be cover , however , and even the servant do not know what be in it , neither do anyone know , for the King never take off the cover to eat of it until he be quite alone . this have go on for a long time , when one day the servant , who take away the dish , be overcome with such curiosity that he could not help carry the dish into he room . when he have carefully lock the door , he lift up the cover , and see a white snake lie on the dish . but when he see it he could not deny himself the pleasure of tasting it , so he cut off a little bit and put it into he mouth . no sooner have it touch he tongue than he hear a strange whispering of little voice outside he window . he go and listen , and then notice that it be the sparrow who be chatter together , and tell one another of all kind of thing which they have see in the field and wood . Eating the snake have give he power of understand the language of animal . now it so happen that on this very day the Queen lose she most beautiful ring , and suspicion of have steal it fall upon this trusty servant , who be allow to go everywhere . the King order the man to be bring before he , and threaten with angry word that unless he could before the morrow point out the thief , he himself should be look upon as guilty and execute . in vain he declare he innocence ; he be dismiss with no better answer . in he trouble and fear he go down into the courtyard and take thought how to help himself out of he trouble . now some duck be sit together quietly by a brook and take they rest ; and , whilst they be make they feather smooth with they bill , they be have a confidential conversation together . the servant stand by and listen . they be tell one another of all the place where they have be waddle about all the morning , and what good food they have find , and one say in a pitiful tone , `` something lie heavy on my stomach ; as I be eat in haste I swallow a ring which lay under the Queen 's window . '' the servant at once seize she by the neck , carry she to the kitchen , and say to the cook , `` here be a fine duck ; pray , kill she . '' `` yes , '' say the cook , and weigh she in he hand ; `` she have spare no trouble to fatten herself , and have be wait to be roasted long enough . '' so he cut off she head , and as she be be dress for the spit , the Queen 's ring be find inside she . the servant could now easily prove he innocence ; and the King , to make amends for the wrong , allow he to ask a favor , and promise he the best place in the court that he could wish for . the servant refuse everything , and only ask for a horse and some money for travel , as he have a mind to see the world and go about a little . when he request be grant he set out on he way , and one day come to a pond , where he see three fish catch in the reed and gasp for water . now , though it be say that fish be dumb , he hear they lament that they must perish so miserably , and , as he have a kind heart , he get off he horse and put the three prisoner back into the water . they quiver with delight , put out they head , and cry to he , `` we will remember you and repay you for save we ! '' he ride on , and after a while it seem to he that he hear a voice in the sand at he foot . he listen , and hear a ant-king complain , `` why can not folk , with they clumsy beast , keep off we body ? that stupid horse , with he heavy hoof , have be tread down my people without mercy ! '' so he turn on to a side path and the ant-king cry out to he , `` we will remember you -- one good turn deserve another ! '' the path lead he into a wood , and here he see two old raven stand by they nest , and throw out they young one . `` out with you , you idle , good-for-nothing creature ! '' cry they ; `` we can not find food for you any longer ; you be big enough , and can provide for yourselve . '' but the poor young raven lay upon the ground , flap they wing , and cry , `` oh , what helpless chick we be ! we must shift for ourselves , and yet we can not fly ! what can we do , but lie here and starve ? '' so the good young fellow alighted and kill he horse with he sword , and give it to they for food . then they come hop up to it , satisfy they hunger , and cry , `` we will remember you -- one good turn deserve another ! '' and now he have to use he own leg , and when he have walk a long way , he come to a large city . there be a great noise and crowd in the street , and a man ride up on horseback , cry aloud , `` the King 's daughter want a husband ; but whoever sue for she hand must perform a hard task , and if he do not succeed he will forfeit he life . '' many have already make the attempt , but in vain ; nevertheless when the youth see the King 's daughter he be so overcome by she great beauty that he forget all danger , go before the King , and declare himself a suitor . so he be lead out to the sea , and a gold ring be throw into it , in he sight ; then the King order he to fetch this ring up from the bottom of the sea , and add , `` if you come up again without it you will be throw in again and again until you perish amid the wave . '' all the people grieve for the handsome youth ; then they go away , leave he alone by the sea . he stand on the shore and consider what he should do , when suddenly he see three fish come swimming towards he , and they be the very fish whose life he have save . the one in the middle hold a mussel in its mouth , which it lay on the shore at the youth 's foot , and when he have take it up and open it , there lay the gold ring in the shell . Full of joy he take it to the King , and expect that he would grant he the promised reward . but when the proud princess perceive that he be not she equal in birth , she scorn he , and require he first to perform another task . she go down into the garden and strew with she own hand ten sacks-full of millet-seed on the grass ; then she say , `` to-morrow morning before sunrise these must be pick up , and not a single grain be want . '' the youth sit down in the garden and consider how it might be possible to perform this task , but he could think of nothing , and there he sit sorrowfully await the break of day , when he should be lead to death . but as soon as the first ray of the sun shone into the garden he see all the ten sack stand side by side , quite full , and not a single grain be miss . the ant-king have come in the night with thousand and thousand of ant , and the grateful creature have by great industry pick up all the millet-seed and gather they into the sack . presently the King 's daughter herself come down into the garden , and be amaze to see that the young man have do the task she have give he . but she could not yet conquer she proud heart , and say , `` although he have perform both the task , he shall not be my husband until he have bring I a apple from the Tree of Life . '' the youth do not know where the tree of Life stand , but he set out , and would have go on for ever , as long as he leg would carry he , though he have no hope of find it . after he have wander through three kingdom , he come one evening to a wood , and lay down under a tree to sleep . but he hear a rustling in the branch , and a golden apple fall into he hand . at the same time three raven fly down to he , perch themselves upon he knee , and say , `` we be the three young raven whom you save from starve ; when we have grow big , and hear that you be seek the Golden Apple , we fly over the sea to the end of the world , where the tree of Life stand , and have bring you the apple . '' the youth , full of joy , set out homeward , and take the Golden Apple to the King 's beautiful daughter , who have no more excuse leave to make . they cut the Apple of Life in two and eat it together ; and then she heart become full of love for he , and they live in undisturbed happiness to a great age .