the CUDGELLED AND CONTENTED CUCKOLD La Fontain SOME time ago from Rome , in smart array , a younger brother homeward bent he way , not much improve , as frequently the case with those who travel to that famous place . upon the road oft finding , where he stay , delightful wine , and handsome belle or maid , with careless ease he loiter up and down . -- one day there pass he in a country town , attend by a page , a lady fair , whose charming form and all-engaging air , at once he bosom fire with fond desire ; and nearer still , she beauty to admire . he most gallantly see she safely home ; Attentions charm the sex where'er we roam . OUR thoughtless rambler pleasure always seek : from Rome this spark have num ` rous pardon bring ; but , -- as to virtue -lrb-B- this too oft we find -rrb-B- , he would leave they , -- with he HOLINESS behind ! the lady be , by ev ` ry one , confess , of beauty , youth , and elegance possess ; she want naught to form she bliss below , but one whose love would ever fondly flow . indeed so fickle prove this giddy youth , that nothing long would please he heart or tooth ; Howe'er he earnestly inquire she name , and ev ` ry other circumstance the same . she be lady , they reply , to great ` squire good , who be almost bald from age ` tis understand ; but as he be rich , and high in rank appear , why that be a recompense you know for year . these fact we young gallant no sooner gain , but ardent hope at once he entertain ; to wily plot he mind he quickly bent , and to a neighb ` ring town he servant send ; then , at the house where dwell we noble ` squire , he humble service propose for hire . PRETENDING ev ` ry sort of work he know , he soon a fav ` rite with old square-toes grow , who -lrb-B- first advise with he charming mate -rrb-B- , Chief falc ` ner make he o ` er he fine estate . the new domestick much the lady pleased ; he watch and eagerly the moment seize , he ardent passion boldly to declare , in which he show a novice have no share . 'TWAS manage well , for nothing but the chase , could square-toes tempt to quit she fond embrace , and then we falc ` ner must he step attend : -- the very time he wish at home to spend . the lady similar emotion show ; for opportunity they bosom glow ; and who will feel in argument so bold , when this I say , the contrary to hold ? at length with pity Cupid see the case , and kindly lend he aid to they embrace . one night the lady say , with eager eye , My dear , among we servant , which d'ye prize , for moral conduct most and upright heart ? to this she spouse reply , the faithful part be with the falc ` ner find , I must decide : to he my life I would readily confide . THEN you be wrong , say she , -- most truly so , for he be a good-for-nothing wretch I know ; you 'll scarcely credit it , but t ` other day , he have the barefaced impudence to say , he love I much , and then he passion press : I have nearly fall , I be so distressed . to tear he eye out , I design at first , and e ` en to choke this wretch , of knave the worst ; by prudence solely be I then restrain , for fear the world should think he point be gain . the better then to prove he dark intent , I feign a inclination to consent , and in the garden , promise as to-night , I would near the pear-tree meet this roguish wight . Said I , my husband never move from hence ; no jealous fancy , but to show the sense he entertain of my pure , virtuous life , and fond affection for a loving wife . thus circumstance , you wish see be vain , unless when he be asleep a march I gain , and softly steal from he torpid side , with tremble step I , to my lover , glide . so thing remain , my dear ; a odd affair : -- on this square-toes ` gan to curse and swear ; but he fond rib most earnestly besought , he rage to stifle , as she clearly think , he might in person , if he would take the pain , secure the rascal and redress obtain you know , say she , the tree be near the door , upon the left and bear of fruit great store ; but if I may my sentiment express , in cap and petticoat you would best to dress ; he insolence be great , and you 'll be right , to give you stroke with double force to night ; Well work he back ; flat lay he on the ground : -- a rascal ! honorable lady round , no doubt he many time have serve the same ; ` tis such impostor character defame . to rouse he wrath the story quite suffice ; the spouse resolve to do as she advise . Howe'er to dupe he be a easy lot ; the hour arrive , he dress he soon have get , away he run with anxious fond delight . in hope the wily spark to trap that night . but no one there we easy fool could see , and while he wait near the fav ` rite tree , half dead with cold , the falc ` ner slyly steal , to she who have so well contrived the whole ; Time , place , and disposition , all combine the loving pair to mutual joy resign . when we expert gallant have with the dame , a hour or more indulged he ardent flame , Though force at length to quit the loving lass , 'twa not without the favorite parting glass ; he then the garden seek , where long the ` squire , upon the knave have wish to vent he ire . no sooner he the silly husband spy , but feign 'twa the wily wife he eye , at once he cry , -- ah , vilest of the sex ! be these thy trick , so good a man to vex ? oh shame upon thee ! thus to treat he love , as pure as snow , descend from above . I could not think thou hadst so base a heart , but clear it be , thou need ` st a friendly part , and that I 'll act : I ask this rendezvous with full intent to see if thou wert true ; and , God be praise , without a loose design , to plunge in luxury pronounce divine . protect I Heav ` n ! poor sinner that I be here ! to guard thy honor I will persevere . my worthy master could I thus disgrace ? Thou wanton baggage with unblushing face , Thee on the spot I 'll instantly chastise , and then thy husband of the fact advise . the fierce harangue o ` er square-toes pleasure spread , who , mutt ` ring ` tween he tooth , with fervor say : O gracious Lord ! to thee my thanks be due -- to have a wife so chaste -- a man so true ! but presently he feel upon he back the falc ` ner 's cudgel vigorously thwack , who soundly baste he as on he run , to gain the house , with terror , pale and wan . the squire have wish he trusty man , no doubt , have not , at cudgelling , be quite so stout ; but since he show himself so true a friend , and with he action could such prudence blend , the master fully pardon what he know , and quickly to he wife in bed he fly , when he relate every thing that pass be we , cry he , a hundred year to last , my lovely dear , we ne'er on earth could find a man so faithful , and so well incline . I would have he take within we town a wife , and you and I 'll regard he during life . in that , reply the lady , we agree , and heartily thereto I pledge will be .