175 the Moon BrothersS Grimm in day go by there be a land where the night be always dark , and the sky spread over it like a black cloth , for there the moon never rise , and no star shone in the obscurity . at the creation of the world , the light at night have be sufficient . three young fellow once go out of this country on a travel expedition , and arrive in another kingdom , where , in the evening when the sun have disappear behind the mountain , a shine globe be place on a oak-tree , which shed a soft light far and wide . by means of this , everything could very well be see and distinguish , even though it be not so brilliant as the sun . the traveller stop and ask a countryman who be drive past with he cart , what kind of a light that be . `` that be the moon , '' answer he ; `` we mayor buy it for three thaler , and fasten it to the oak-tree . he have to pour oil into it daily , and to keep it clean , so that it may always burn clearly . he receive a thaler a week from we for do it . '' when the countryman have drive away , one of they say , `` we could make some use of this lamp , we have a oak-tree at home , which be just as big as this , and we could hang it on that . what a pleasure it would be not to have to feel about at night in the darkness ! '' `` I 'll tell you what we 'll do , '' say the second ; `` we will fetch a cart and horse and carry away the moon . the people here may buy themselves another . '' `` I be a good climber , '' say the third , `` I will bring it down . '' the fourth bring a cart and horse , and the third climb the tree , bore a hole in the moon , pass a rope through it , and let it down . when the shine ball lay in the cart , they cover it over with a cloth , that no one might observe the theft . they convey it safely into they own country , and place it on a high oak . Old and young rejoiced , when the new lamp let its light shine over the whole land , and bed-rooms and sitting-rooms be fill with it . the dwarf come forth from they cave in the rock , and the tiny elf in they little red coat dance in ring on the meadow . the four take care that the moon be provide with oil , clean the wick , and receive they weekly thaler , but they become old man , and when one of they grow ill , and see that he be about to die , he appoint that one quarter of the moon , should , as he property , be lay in the grave with he . when he die , the mayor climb up the tree , and cut off a quarter with the hedge-shears , and this be place in he coffin . the light of the moon decrease , but still not visibly . when the second die , the second quarter be bury with he , and the light diminish . it grow weaker still after the death of the third , who likewise take he part of it away with he ; and when the fourth be bear to he grave , the old state of darkness recommence , and whenever the people go out at night without they lantern they knock they head together . when , however , the piece of the moon have unite themselves together again in the world below , where darkness have always prevail , it come to pass that the dead become restless and awake from they sleep . they be astonish when they be able to see again ; the moonlight be quite sufficient for they , for they eye have become so weak that they could not have bear the brilliance of the sun . they rise up and be merry , and fall into they former way of living . some of they go to the play and to dance , other hasten to the public-houses , where they ask for wine , get drunk , brawled , quarreled , and at last take up cudgel , and belabor each other . the noise become greater and greater , and at last reach even to heaven . Saint Peter who guard the gate of heaven think the lower world have break out in revolt and gather together the heavenly troops , which be to drive back the Evil one when he and he associate storm the abode of the bless . as these , however , do not come , he get on he horse and ride through the gate of heaven , down into the world below . there he reduce the dead to subjection , bid they lie down in they grave again , take the moon away with he , and hang it up in heaven .