80 the Death of the Little Hen BrothersS Grimm once upon a time the little hen go with the little cock to the nut-hill , and they agree together that whichsoever of they find a kernel of a nut should share it with the other . then the hen find a large , large nut , but say nothing about it , intend to eat the kernel herself . the kernel , however , be so large that she could not swallow it , and it remain stick in she throat , so that she be alarm lest she should be choke . then she cry , `` Cock , I entreat thee to run as fast thou canst , and fetch I some water , or I shall choke . '' the little cock do run as fast as he could to the spring , and say , `` Stream , thou art to give I some water ; the little hen be lie on the nut-hill , and she have swallow a large nut , and be choke . '' the well answer , `` first run to the bride , and get she to give thee some red silk . '' the little cock run to the bride and say , `` Bride , you be to give I some red silk ; I want to give red silk to the well , the well be to give I some water , I be to take the water to the little hen who be lie on the nut-hill and have swallow a great nut-kernel , and be choke with it . '' the bride answer , `` first run and bring I my little wreath which be hang to a willow . '' so the little cock run to the willow , and draw the wreath from the branch and take it to the bride , and the bride give he some water for it . then the little cock take the water to the hen , but when he get there the hen have choke in the meantime , and lay there dead and motionless . then the cock be so distressed that he cry aloud , and every animal come to lament the little hen , and six mouse build a little carriage to carry she to she grave , and when the carriage be ready they harness themselves to it , and the cock drive . on the way , however , they meet the fox , who say , `` where art thou go , little cock ? '' `` I be go to bury my little hen . '' `` May I drive with thee ? '' `` yes , but seat thyself at the back of the carriage , for in the front my little horse could not drag thee . '' then the fox seat himself at the back , and after that the wolf , the bear , the stag , the lion , and all the beast of the forest do the same . then the procession go onward , and they reach the stream . `` how be we to get over ? '' say the little cock . a straw be lie by the stream , and it say , `` I will lay myself across , and you shall drive over I . '' but when the six mouse come to the bridge , the straw slip and fall into the water , and the six mouse all fall in and be drown . then they be again in difficulty , and a coal come and say , `` I be large enough , I will lay myself across and you shall drive over I . '' so the coal also lay itself across the water , but unhappily just touch it , on which the coal hiss , be extinguish and die . when a stone see that , it take pity on the little cock , wish to help he , and lay itself over the water . then the cock draw the carriage himself , but when he get it over and reach the other shore with the dead hen , and be about to draw over the other who be sit behind as well , there be too many of they , the carriage run back , and they all fall into the water together , and be drown . then the little cock be leave alone with the dead hen , and dig a grave for she and lay she in it , and make a mound above it , on which he sit down and fret until he die too , and then every one be dead .