27 the Bremen Town-MusiciansS BrothersS Grimm A certain man have a donkey , which have carry the corn-sacks to the mill indefatigably for many a long year ; but he strength be go , and he be grow more and more unfit for work . then he master begin to consider how he might best save he keep ; but the donkey , see that no good wind be blow , run away and set out on the road to Bremen . `` there , '' he think , `` I can surely be town-musician . '' when he have walk some distance , he find a hound lie on the road , gasp like one who have run till he be tire . `` what be you gasp so for , you big fellow ? '' ask the donkey . `` ah , '' reply the hound , `` as I be old , and daily grow weaker , and no longer can hunt , my master want to kill I , so I take to flight ; but now how be I to earn my bread ? '' `` I tell you what , '' say the donkey , `` I be go to Bremen , and shall be town-musician there ; go with I and engage yourself also as a musician . I will play the lute , and you shall beat the kettledrum . '' the hound agree , and on they go . before long they come to a cat , sit on the path , with a face like three rainy day ! `` now then , old shaver , what have go askew with you ? '' ask the donkey . `` who can be merry when he neck be in danger ? '' answer the cat . `` because I be now get old , and my tooth be worn to stump , and I prefer to sit by the fire and spin , rather than hunt about after mouse , my mistress want to drown I , so I run away . but now good advice be scarce . where be I to go ? '' `` go with we to Bremen . you understand night-music , you can be a town-musician . '' the cat think well of it , and go with they . after this the three fugitive come to a farm-yard , where the cock be sit upon the gate , crow with all he might . `` you crow go through and through one , '' say the donkey . `` what be the matter ? '' `` I have be foretell fine weather , because it be the day on which Our Lady wash the Christ-child 's little shirt , and want to dry they , '' say the cock ; `` but guest be come for Sunday , so the housewife have no pity , and have tell the cook that she intend to eat I in the soup to-morrow , and this evening I be to have my head cut off . now I be crow at full pitch while I can . '' `` ah , but red-comb , '' say the donkey , `` you have better come away with we . we be go to Bremen ; you can find something better than death everywhere : you have a good voice , and if we make music together it must have some quality ! '' the cock agree to this plan , and all four go on together . they could not , however , reach the city of Bremen in one day , and in the evening they come to a forest where they mean to pass the night . the donkey and the hound lay themselves down under a large tree , the cat and the cock settle themselves in the branch ; but the cock fly right to the top , where he be most safe . before he go to sleep he look round on all four side , and think he see in the distance a little spark burning ; so he call out to he companion that there must be a house not far off , for he see a light . the donkey say , `` if so , we have better get up and go on , for the shelter here be bad . '' the hound think that a few bone with some meat on would do he good too ! so they make they way to the place where the light be , and soon see it shine brighter and grow larger , until they come to a well-lighted robber 's house . the donkey , as the biggest , go to the window and look in . `` what do you see , my grey-horse ? '' ask the cock . `` what do I see ? '' answer the donkey ; `` a table cover with good thing to eat and drink , and robber sit at it enjoy themselves . '' `` that would be the sort of thing for we , '' say the cock . `` yes , yes ; ah , how I wish we be there ! '' say the donkey . then the animal take counsel together how they should manage to drive away the robber , and at last they think of a plan . the donkey be to place himself with he fore-feet upon the window-ledge , the hound be to jump on the donkey 's back , the cat be to climb upon the dog , and lastly the cock be to fly up and perch upon the head of the cat . when this be do , at a give signal , they begin to perform they music together : the donkey bray , the hound bark , the cat mew , and the cock crow ; then they burst through the window into the room , so that the glass clatter ! at this horrible din , the robber spring up , think no otherwise than that a ghost have come in , and flee in a great fright out into the forest . the four companion now sit down at the table , well content with what be leave , and eat as if they be go to fast for a month . as soon as the four minstrel have do , they put out the light , and each seek for himself a sleeping-place accord to he nature and to what suit he . the donkey lay himself down upon some straw in the yard , the hound behind the door , the cat upon the hearth near the warm ash , and the cock perch himself upon a beam of the roof ; and be tire from they long walk , they soon go to sleep . when it be past midnight , and the robber see from afar that the light be no longer burning in they house , and all appear quiet , the captain say , `` we ought not to have let ourselves be frighten out of we wit ; '' and order one of they to go and examine the house . the messenger find all still , go into the kitchen to light a candle , and , take the glistening fiery eye of the cat for live coal , he hold a lucifer-match to they to light it . but the cat do not understand the joke , and fly in he face , spit and scratch . he be dreadfully frightened , and run to the back-door , but the dog , who lay there spring up and bit he leg ; and as he run across the yard by the straw-heap , the donkey give he a smart kick with its hind foot . the cock , too , who have be awaken by the noise , and have become lively , cry down from the beam , `` cock-a-doodle-doo ! '' then the robber run back as fast as he could to he captain , and say , `` ah , there be a horrible witch sit in the house , who spit on I and scratch my face with she long claw ; and by the door stand a man with a knife , who stab I in the leg ; and in the yard there lie a black monster , who beat I with a wooden club ; and above , upon the roof , sit the judge , who call out , ` bring the rogue here to I ! ' so I get away as well as I could . '' after this the robber do not trust themselves in the house again ; but it suit the four musician of Bremen so well that they do not care to leave it any more . and the mouth of he who last tell this story be still warm .