the DEVIL in HELL La Fontain he surely must be wrong who love fear ; and do not flee when beauty first appear . Ye FAIR , with charm divine , I know you fame ; no more I 'll burn my finger in the flame . from you a soft sensation seem to rise , and , to the heart , advance through the eye ; what there it cause I have no need to tell : some die of love , or languish in the spell . far better surely mortal here might do ; there be no occasion danger to pursue . by way of proof a charmer I will bring , whose beauty to a hermit give the sting : Thence , save the sin , which fully I except ; a very pleasant intercourse be keep ; except the sin , again I must repeat , my sentiment on this will never meet the taste of he at Rome , who wine have swill , till , to the throat , he thoroughly be fill , and then exclaim , be ` t not a sin to drink ? such conduct horrid ever I shall think ; I wish to prove , e ` en saint in fear should live ; the truth be clear : -- we fault may heav ` n forgive ; if dread of punishment , from pow ` r divine , have lead this friar in the proper line , he never have the charming girl retain , who , young and artless , would you heart have gain . HER name be Alibech , if I recollect ; too innocent , deception to detect . one day this lovely maiden have read , how certain pious , holy saint be lead , the better to observe religious care , to seek retirement in some lorn repair , where they , like Heav ` nly AngelsS , move around , some here , some there , be in concealment find , be quite delighted , strange as it may seem , and presently she form the frantick scheme , of imitate those she mind revere , and to she plan most rigidly adhere . with silent step the innocent withdraw ; to mother , sister , -- none she bid adieu . long time she walk through field , and plain , and dale ; at length she gain a wood within a vale ; there meet a age man , who once might be , Gay , airy , pleasing , blithe , gallant , and free , but now a meager skeleton be see the shadow only of what late he would be : Said she , good father , I have much desire to be a saint : thither my hope aspire ; I fain would merit reverence and prayer , a festival have keep with anxious care ; what pleasure , ev ` ry year , the palm in hand , and , beam round the head , a holy band , Nice present , flow ` r , and off ` ring to receive you practice difficult must I believe ? already I can fast for many day , and soon should learn to follow all you way . Go , say the age man , you plan resign ; I would have you , as a friend , the state decline ; ` Tis not so easy sanctity to meet , that fasting should suffice the boon to greet . Heav ` n guard from ill the maid and wife who fast , or holiness would very seldom last . ` Tis requisite to practice other thing ; these secret be , which move by hidden spring ; a hermit , whom you 'll find beneath yon ' beech , can , better far than I , they virtue teach ; go , seek he , pray , make haste if you be sage ; I ne'er retain such bird within my cage . this have say , at once he leave the belle , and wisely shut the door , and bar he cell : not trust hair-cloth , fasting , age , nor gout ; with beauty , anchorite themselves should doubt . OUR pensive fair soon find the person mean , a man whose soul be on religion bent ; he name be Rustick , young and warm in prayer ; such youthful hermit of deception share . she holy wish , the girl to he express , a wish most fervent doubtless to be bless , and feel so strongly , Alibech have fear , some day the mark might on she fruit appear . a SMILE she innocence from Rustick draw ; Said he , in I you little learning view ; but what I have get , I 'll readily divide , and nothing from you sens try to hide . the hermit surely would have act right ; such pupil to have send away at sight . he manage otherwise , as we shall state ; the consequence , let we now relate . SINCE much he wish perfection to pursue ; he , to himself , exclaim : what can ` st thou do ? Watch , fast , and pray ; wear hair-cloth too ; but this be surely little that will lead to bliss ; all do as much , but with a FAIR to dwell , and , never touch she , would be to excel ; ` Twere triumph ` mong the Heav ` nly AngelsS think ; Let 's merit it , and keep what here be bring ; if I resist a thing so sweet and kind , I gain the end that pow ` r divine design . he with he let the charming belle remain ; and confident he could at will abstain , both Satan and the flesh at once defy : two foe on mischief ready to decide . BEHOLD we saint together in a hut ; Young Rustick , where a corner seem to jut ; a bed of rush for the novice place , since sleep on the floor have she debased , who , yet unused to hardship , much must feel : 'TwasS best that these should on she sens steal . a little fruit , and bread not over fine , she have for supper : -- water too for wine . the hermit fast ; but the lady fed , and eat with appetite she fruit and bread . apart they place of rest , the maiden sleep , but something quite awake the other keep : the Devil could by no means quiet rest , till he should get admit as a guest . he be receive within the humble cell ; the friar 's thought be on he smile belle , she simple manners , fascinating grace , Complexion , age ; each feature he would trace ; the heaving bosom , and the beauteous charm ; that make he wish to clasp she in he arm . by passion move , he bid at once adieu , to hair-cloth , discipline , and fast too ; Cried he , my saint be these ; to they I 'll pray ; from Alibech no longer he would stay , but to she fly , and rouse the girl from sleep : Said he , so soon you should not silence keep , it be not right : -- there be something to be do , Ere we suspend the converse we have begin : ` ti proper that , to please the pow ` r divine ; we satan instantly in Hell confine ; he be create for no other end ; to block he up let 's ev ` ry effort lend . immediately within the bed he slide , when , scarcely know what young Rustick do ; and , unaccustomed to the mystick scene , she know not what the anchorite could mean , nor this nor that but , partly by consent , and partly force , yet wish to prevent , though not presume to resist he sway to he ` mid pain and pleasure , she give way , believe ev ` ry thing be most exact , and , what the saint perform , a gracious act , by thus the Devil shut up in Hell , where he be destine with he imp to dwell . HENCEFORTH 'twa requisite , if saint she would be ; from martyrdom she must not think to flee , for friar Rustick little seek to please : the lesson be not give quite at ease , which make the girl -lrb-B- not much improve in wit -rrb-B- Exclaim , this Devil mischief will commit ; ` Tis very plain , though strange it may appear to hurt he prison e ` en he 'll persevere ; the injury now you clearly may perceive ; but , for the evil do , I shall not grieve : yet richly he deserve to be again shut up effectually in he domain . it shall be so , the anchorite reply ; once more the mystick art be fully try ; such care he take , such charity be show , that Hell , by use , free with the Devil grow , he presence pleasant always would have find ; could rustick equally have keep he ground . CRIED Alibech , ` tis very truly say , no prison have so nice and soft a bed , but presently the host will weary grow ; and here we pair soon discord seem to show : Hell , for the prisoner , in vain inquire ; Deaf be the fiend , and quietly retire ; repeat call of course must irksome prove : the fair grow weary , when he would not move ; she strong desire to be a saint decline ; and Rustick to get rid of she design ; in this with he the belle agree so well , that secretly she leave the hermit 's cell , and home return in haste the shortest way ; but what the fair could to she parent say , be what I fain would know , though truly yet ; the full particulars I ne'er could get . ` ti probable she make they understand , she heart be prompt by divine command ; to try to be a saint ; that they believe , or seemingly for truth the tale receive . perhaps the parent be not quite exact , in narrowly examine the fact ; though some suspicion doubtless might arise about she Hell , they could not well disguise ; but ` tis so formed that little can be see , and many jailor in it dupe have be . for Alibech great feasting be prepare , when , through simplicity , the girl declare , to those around , without the least restraint , how she have act to be make a saint . you would surely no occasion , they reply , to go so far instruction to provide , when at you house you might have have , with ease , like secret lecture , just as you should please . Said one , my brother could the thing have do ; another cried , -- my cousin would have run to do the same ; or Neherbal , who be near , no novice in the business would appear ; he seek you hand , which you 'll be wise to take before he learn -- what might a diff ` rence make . she take the hint , and he the fair receive ; a handsome fortune many fear relieve ; this join to num ` rous charm that have the belle ; he fancy pure a most suspicious Hell , and freely use the blessing Hymen send ; May Heav ` n like joy bestow on all we friend !