106 the Poor Miller 's Boy and the Cat BrothersS Grimm in a certain mill live a old miller who have neither wife nor child , and three apprentice serve under he . as they have be with he several year , he one day say to they , `` I be old , and want to sit in the chimney-corner , go out , and whichsoever of you bring I the best horse home , to he will I give the mill , and in return for it he shall take care of I till my death . '' the third of the boy be , however , the drudge , who be look on as foolish by the other ; they begrudge the mill to he , and afterwards he would not have it . then all three go out together , and when they come to the village , the two say to stupid Hans , `` Thou mayst just as well stay here , as long as thou livest thou wilt never get a horse . '' Hans , however , go with they , and when it be night they come to a cave in which they lay down to sleep . the two sharp one wait until Hans have fall asleep , then they get up , and go away leave he where he be . and they think they have do a very clever thing , but it be certain to turn out ill for they . when the sun arise , and Hans wake up , he be lie in a deep cavern . he look around on every side and exclaim , `` oh , heaven , where be I ? '' then he get up and clamber out of the cave , go into the forest , and think , `` here I be quite alone and desert , how shall I obtain a horse now ? '' Whilst he be thus walk full of thought , he meet a small tabby-cat which say quite kindly , `` Hans , where be you go ? '' `` Alas , thou canst not help I . '' `` I well know you desire , '' say the cat . `` you wish to have a beautiful horse . come with I , and be my faithful servant for seven year long , and then I will give you one more beautiful than any you have ever see in you whole life . '' `` well , this be a wonderful cat ! '' think Hans , `` but I be determine to see if she be tell the truth . '' so she take he with she into she enchanted castle , where there be nothing but cat who be she servant . they leap nimbly upstairs and downstairs , and be merry and happy . in the evening when they sit down to dinner , three of they have to make music . one play the bassoon , the other the fiddle , and the third put the trumpet to he lip , and blow out he cheek as much as he possibly could . when they have dine , the table be carry away , and the cat say , `` now , Hans , come and dance with I . '' `` no , '' say he , `` I will not dance with a pussy cat . I have never do that yet . '' `` then take he to bed , '' say she to the cat . so one of they light he to he bed-room , one pull he shoe off , one he stocking , and at last one of they blow out the candle . next morning they return and help he out of bed , one put he stocking on for he , one tie he garter , one bring he shoe , one wash he , and one dry he face with she tail . `` that feel very soft ! '' say Hans . he , however , have to serve the cat , and chop some wood every day , and to do that , he have a axe of silver , and the wedge and saw be of silver and the mallet of copper . so he chop the wood small ; stay there in the house and have good meat and drink , but never see anyone but the tabby-cat and she servant . once she say to he , `` go and mow my meadow , and dry the grass , '' and give he a scythe of silver , and a whetstone of gold , but bid he deliver they up again carefully . so Hans go thither , and do what he be bidden , and when he have finish the work , he carry the scythe , whetstone , and hay to the house , and ask if it be not yet time for she to give he he reward . `` no , '' say the cat , `` you must first do something more for I of the same kind . there be timber of silver , carpenter 's axe , square , and everything that be needful , all of silver , with these build I a small house . '' then Hans build the small house , and say that he have now do everything , and still he have no horse . nevertheless the seven year have go by with he as if they be six month . the cat ask he if he would like to see she horse ? `` yes , '' say Hans . then she open the door of the small house , and when she have open it , there stand twelve horse , such horse , so bright and shine , that he heart rejoice at the sight of they . and now she give he to eat and drink , and say , `` go home , I will not give thee thy horse away with thee ; but in three day ' time I will follow thee and bring it . '' so Hans set out , and she show he the way to the mill . she have , however , never once give he a new coat , and he have be oblige to keep on he dirty old smock-frock , which he have bring with he , and which during the seven year have everywhere become too small for he . when he reach home , the two other apprentice be there again as well , and each of they certainly have bring a horse with he , but one of they be a blind one , and the other lame . they ask Hans where he horse be . `` it will follow I in three day ' time . '' then they laugh and say , `` indeed , stupid Hans , where wilt thou get a horse ? '' `` it will be a fine one ! '' Hans go into the parlor , but the miller say he should not sit down to table , for he be so ragged and torn , that they would all be ashamed of he if any one come in . so they give he a mouthful of food outside , and at night , when they go to rest , the two other would not let he have a bed , and at last he be force to creep into the goose-house , and lie down on a little hard straw . in the morning when he awake , the three day have pass , and a coach come with six horse and they shine so bright that it be delightful to see they ! and a servant bring a seventh as well , which be for the poor miller 's boy . and a magnificent princess alight from the coach and go into the mill , and this princess be the little tabby-cat whom poor Hans have serve for seven year . she ask the miller where the miller 's boy and drudge be ? then the miller say , `` we can not have he here in the mill , for he be so ragged ; he be lie in the goose-house . '' then the King 's daughter say that they be to bring he immediately . so they bring he out , and he have to hold he little smock-frock together to cover himself . the servant unpacked splendid garment , and wash he and dress he , and when that be do , no king could have look more handsome . then the maiden desire to see the horse which the other apprentice have bring home with they , and one of they be blind and the other lame . so she order the servant to bring the seventh horse , and when the miller see it , he say that such a horse as that have never yet enter he yard . `` and that be for the third miller 's boy , '' say she . `` then he must have the mill , '' say the miller , but the King 's daughter say that the horse be there , and that he be to keep he mill as well , and take she faithful Hans and set he in the coach , and drive away with he . they first drive to the little house which he have build with the silver tool , and behold it be a great castle , and everything inside it be of silver and gold ; and then she marry he , and he be rich , so rich that he have enough for all the rest of he life . after this , let no one ever say that anyone who be silly can never become a person of importance .