63 the three feather BrothersS Grimm there be once on a time a king who have three son , of whom two be clever and wise , but the third do not speak much , and be simple , and be call the Simpleton . when the King have become old and weak , and be think of he end , he do not know which of he son should inherit the kingdom after he . then he say to they , `` go forth , and he who bring I the most beautiful carpet shall be King after my death . '' and that there should be no dispute amongst they , he take they outside he castle , blow three feather in the air , and say , `` you shall go as they fly . '' one feather fly to the east , the other to the west , but the third fly straight up and do not fly far , but soon fall to the ground . and now one brother go to the right , and the other to the left , and they mock Simpleton , who be force to stay where the third feather have fall . he sit down and be sad , then all at once he see that there be a trap-door close by the feather . he raise it up , find some step , and go down they , and then he come to another door , knock at it , and hear somebody inside call , `` little green maiden small , hop hither and thither ; Hop to the door , and quickly see who be there . '' the door open , and he see a great , fat toad sit , and round about she a crowd of little toad . the fat toad ask what he want ? he answer , `` I should like to have the prettiest and finest carpet in the world . '' then she call a young one and say , `` little green maiden small , hop hither and thither , Hop quickly and bring I the great box here . '' the young toad bring the box , and the fat toad open it , and give Simpleton a carpet out of it , so beautiful and so fine , that on the earth above , none could have be weave like it . then he thank she , and ascend again . the two other have , however , look on they youngest brother as so stupid that they believe he would find and bring nothing at all . `` why should we give ourselves a great deal of trouble to search ? '' say they , and get some coarse handkerchief from the first shepherd ' wife whom they meet , and carry they home to the King . at the same time Simpleton also come back , and bring he beautiful carpet , and when the King see it he be astonish , and say , `` if justice be do , the kingdom belong to the youngest . '' but the two other let they father have no peace , and say that it be impossible that Simpleton , who in everything lack understanding , should be King , and entreat he to make a new agreement with they . then the father say , `` he who bring I the most beautiful ring shall inherit the kingdom , '' and lead the three brother out , and blow into the air three feather , which they be to follow . those of the two eldest again go east and west , and Simpleton 's feather fly straight up , and fall down near the door into the earth . then he go down again to the fat toad , and tell she that he want the most beautiful ring . she at once order she great box to be bring , and give he a ring out of it , which sparkle with jewel , and be so beautiful that no goldsmith on earth would have be able to make it . the two eldest laugh at Simpleton for go to seek a golden ring . they give themselves no trouble , but knock the nail out of a old carriage-ring , and take it to the King ; but when Simpleton produce he golden ring , he father again say , `` the kingdom belong to he . '' the two eldest do not cease from torment the King until he make a third condition , and declare that the one who bring the most beautiful woman home , should have the kingdom . he again blow the three feather into the air , and they fly as before . then Simpleton without more ado go down to the fat toad , and say , `` I be to take home the most beautiful woman ! '' `` oh , '' answer the toad , `` the most beautiful woman ! she be not at hand at the moment , but still thou shalt have she . '' she give he a yellow turnip which have be hollow out , to which six mouse be harness . then Simpleton say quite mournfully , `` what be I to do with that ? '' the toad answer , `` just put one of my little toad into it . '' then he seize one at random out of the circle , and put she into the yellow coach , but hardly be she seat inside it than she turn into a wonderfully beautiful maiden , and the turnip into a coach , and the six mouse into horse . so he kiss she , and drive off quickly with the horse , and take she to the King . he brother come afterwards ; they have give themselves no trouble at all to seek beautiful girl , but have bring with they the first peasant woman they chance to meet . when the King see they he say , `` after my death the kingdom belong to my youngest son . '' but the two eldest deafen the King 's ear afresh with they clamor , `` we can not consent to Simpleton 's be King , '' and demand that the one whose wife could leap through a ring which hang in the center of the hall should have the preference . they think , `` the peasant woman can do that easily ; they be strong enough , but the delicate maiden will jump herself to death . '' the age King agree likewise to this . then the two peasant woman jump , and jump through the ring , but be so stout that they fall , and they coarse arm and leg break in two . and then the pretty maiden whom Simpleton have bring with he , spring , and spring through as lightly as a deer , and all opposition have to cease . so he receive the crown , and have rule wisely for a length of time .