171 the Willow-Wren BrothersS Grimm in former day every sound still have its meaning and application . when the smith 's hammer resound , it cry , `` strike away ! strike away . '' when the carpenter 's plane grate , it say , `` here go ! here go . '' if the mill wheel begin to clack , it say , `` help , Lord God ! help , Lord God ! '' and if the miller be a cheat and happen to leave the mill , it speak high german , and first ask slowly , `` who be there ? who be there ? '' and then answer quickly , `` the miller ! the miller ! '' and at last quite in a hurry , `` he steal bravely ! he steal bravely ! three peck in a bushel . '' at this time the bird also have they own language which every one understand ; now it only sound like chirp , screech , and whistling , and to some like music without word . it come into the bird 's mind , however , that they would no longer be without a ruler , and would choose one of themselves to be they king . one alone amongst they , the green plover , be oppose to this . he have live free , and would die free , and anxiously fly hither and thither , he cry , `` where shall I go ? where shall I go ? '' he retire into a solitary and unfrequented marsh , and show himself no more among he fellow . the bird now wish to discuss the matter , and on a fine May morning they all gather together from the wood and field : eagle and chaffinch , owl and crow , lark and sparrow , how can I name they all ? even the cuckoo come , and the hoopoe , he clerk , who be so call because he be always hear a few day before he , and a very small bird which as yet have no name , mingle with the band . the hen , which by some accident have hear nothing of the whole matter , be astonish at the great assemblage . `` what , what , what be go to be do ? '' she cackle ; but the cock calm he beloved hen , and say , `` only rich people , '' and tell she what they have on hand . it be decide , however , that the one who could fly the highest should be King . a tree-frog which be sit among the bush , when he hear that , cry a warning , `` no , no , no ! no ! '' because he think that many tear would be shed because of this ; but the crow say , `` Caw , caw , '' and that all would pass off peaceably . it be now determine that on this fine morning they should at once begin to ascend , so that hereafter no one should be able to say , `` I could easily have fly much higher , but the evening come on , and I could do no more . '' on a give signal , therefore , the whole troop rise up in the air . the dust ascend from the land , and there be tremendous fluttering and whir and beating of wing , and it look as if a black cloud be rise up . the little bird be , however , soon leave behind . they could go no farther , and fall back to the ground . the larger bird hold out longer , but none could equal the eagle , who mount so high that he could have pick the eye out of the sun . and when he see that the other could not get up to he , he think , `` why shouldst thou fly still higher , thou art the King ? '' and begin to let himself down again . the bird beneath he at once cry to he . `` Thou must be we King , no one have fly so high as thou . '' `` except I , '' scream the little fellow without a name , who have creep into the breast-feathers of the eagle . and as he be not at all tired , he rise up and mount so high that he reach heaven itself . when , however , he have go as far as this , he fold he wing together , and call down with clear and penetrate voice , `` I be King ! I be King . '' `` Thou , we king ? '' cry the bird angrily . `` Thou hast compass it by trick and cunning ! '' so they make another condition . he should be King who could go down lowest in the ground . how the goose do flap about with its broad breast when it be once more on the land ! how quickly the cock scratch a hole ! the duck come off the worst of all , for she leap into a ditch , but sprain she leg , and waddle away to a neighboring pond , cry , `` cheating , cheating ! '' the little bird without a name , however , seek out a mouse-hole , slip down into it , and cry out of it with he small voice , `` I be King ! I be King ! '' `` Thou we king ! '' cry the bird still more angrily . `` dost thou think thy cunning shall prevail ? '' they determine to keep he a prisoner in the hole and starve he out . the owl be place as sentinel in front of it , and be not to let the rascal out if she have any value for she life . when evening be come all the bird be feel very tire after exert they wing so much , so they go to bed with they wife and child . the owl alone remain standing by the mouse-hole , gaze steadfastly into it with she great eye . in the meantime she , too , have grow tired and think to herself , `` you might certainly shut one eye , you will still watch with the other , and the little miscreant shall not come out of he hole . '' so she shut one eye , and with the other look straight at the mouse-hole . the little fellow put he head out and peep , and want to slip away , but the owl come forward immediately , and he draw he head back again . then the owl open the one eye again , and shut the other , intend to shut they in turn all through the night . but when she next shut the one eye , she forget to open the other , and as soon as both she eye be shut she fall asleep . the little fellow soon observe that , and slip away . from that day forth , the owl have never dare to show herself by daylight , for if she do the other bird chase she and pluck she feather out . she only fly out by night , but hate and pursue mouse because they make such ugly hole . the little bird , too , be very unwilling to let himself be see , because he be afraid it will cost he he life if he be catch . he steal about in the hedge , and when he be quite safe , he sometimes cry , `` I be King , '' and for this reason , the other bird call he in mockery , ` king of the hedge ' -lrb-B- Zaunk nig -rrb-B- . no one , however , be so happy as the lark at not have to obey the little king . as soon as the sun appear , she ascend high in the air and cry , `` ah , how beautiful that be ! beautiful that be ! beautiful , beautiful ! ah , how beautiful that be ! ''