the GOBLIN and the HUCKSTER . H. C. Andersen there be once a regular student : he live in a garret , and nothing at all belong to he ; but there be also once a regular huckster : he live on the ground floor , and the whole house be he ; and the goblin keep with he , for on the huckster 's table on Christmas Eve there be always a dish of plum porridge , with a great piece of butter float in the middle . the huckster could accomplish that ; and consequently the goblin stick to the huckster 's shop , and that be very interesting . one evening the student come through the back door to buy candle and cheese for himself . he have no one to send , and that be why he come himself . he procure what he want and pay for it , and the huckster and he wife both nod a `` good evening '' to he ; and the woman be one who could do more than merely nod -- she have a immense power of tongue ! and the student nod too , and then suddenly stand still , read the sheet of paper in which the cheese have be wrap . it be a leaf tear out of a old book , a book that ought not to have be tear up , a book that be full of poetry . `` Yonder lie some more of the same sort , '' say the huckster : `` I give a old woman a little coffee for the book ; give I two groschen , and you shall have the remainder . '' `` yes , '' say the student , `` give I the book instead of the cheese : I can eat my bread and butter without cheese . it would be a sin to tear the book up entirely . you be a capital man , a practical man , but you understand no more about poetry than do that cask yonder . '' now , that be a insulting speech , especially towards the cask ; but the huckster laugh and the student laugh , for it be only say in fun . but the goblin be angry that any one should dare to say such thing to a huckster who live in he own house and sell the best butter . when it be night , and the shop be close and all be in bed , the goblin come forth , go into the bedroom , and take away the good lady 's tongue ; for she do not want that while she be asleep ; and whenever he put this tongue upon any object in the room , the say object acquire speech and language , and could express its thought and feeling as well as the lady herself could have do ; but only one object could use it at a time , and that be a good thing , otherwise they would have interrupt each other . and the goblin lay the tongue upon the cask in which the old newspaper be lie . `` be it true , '' he ask , `` that you do not know what poetry mean ? '' `` of course I know it , '' reply the cask : `` poetry be something that always stand at the foot of a column in the newspaper , and be sometimes cut out . I dare swear I have more of it in I than the student , and I be only a poor tub compare to the huckster . '' then the goblin put the tongue upon the coffee-mill , and , mercy ! how it begin to go ! and he put it upon the butter-cask , and on the cash-box : they be all of the waste-paper cask 's opinion , and the opinion of the majority must be respect . `` now I shall tell it to the student ! '' and with these word the goblin go quite quietly up the back stair to the garret , where the student live . the student have still a candle burning , and the goblin peep through the keyhole , and see that he be read in the torn book that he have carry up out of the shop downstairs . but how light it be in he room ! out of the book shoot a clear beam , expand into a thick stem , and into a mighty tree , which grow upward and spread its branch far over the student . each leaf be fresh , and every blossom be a beautiful female head , some with dark sparkling eye , other with wonderfully clear blue orb ; every fruit be a gleaming star , and there be a glorious sound of song in the student 's room . never have the little goblin imagine such splendor , far less have he ever see or hear anything like it . he stand still on tiptoe , and peep in till the light go out in the student 's garret . probably the student blow it out , and go to bed ; but the little goblin remain stand there nevertheless , for the music still sound on , soft and beautiful -- a splendid cradle song for the student who have lie down to rest . `` this be a incomparable place , '' say the goblin : `` I never expect such a thing ! I should like to stay here with the student . '' and then the little man think it over -- and he be a sensible little man too -- but he sigh , `` the student have no porridge ! '' and then he go down again to the huckster 's shop : and it be a very good thing that he get down there again at last , for the cask have almost worn out the good woman 's tongue , for it have speak out at one side everything that be contain in it , and be just about turn itself over , to give it out from the other side also , when the goblin come in , and restore the tongue to its owner . but from that time forth the whole shop , from the cash-box down to the firewood , take its tone from the cask , and pay he such respect , and think so much of he , that when the huckster afterwards read the critical article on theatricals and art in the newspaper , they be all persuade the information come from the cask itself . but the goblin could no longer sit quietly and contentedly listen to all the wisdom down there : so soon as the light glimmer from the garret in the evening he feel as if the ray be strong cable draw he up , and he be oblige to go and peep through the keyhole ; and there a feeling of greatness roll around he , such as we feel beside the ever-heaving sea when the storm rush over it , and he burst into tear ! he do not know himself why he be weep , but a peculiar feeling of pleasure mingle with he tear . how wonderfully glorious it must be to sit with the student under the same tree ! but that might not be , he be oblige to be content with the view through the keyhole , and to be glad of that . there he stand on the cold landing-place , with the autumn wind blow down from the loft-hole : it be cold , very cold ; but the little mannikin only feel that when the light in the room be extinguish , and the tone in the tree die away . ha ! then he shiver , and creep down again to he warm corner , where it be homely and comfortable . and when Christmas come , and bring with it the porridge and the great lump of butter , why , then he think the huckster the better man . but in the middle of the night the goblin be awake by a terrible tumult and beating against the window shutter . people rap noisily without , and the watchman blow he horn , for a great fire have break out -- the whole street be full of smoke and flame . be it in the house itself , or at a neighbour 's ? where be it ? terror seize on all . the huckster 's wife be so bewildered that she take she gold earring out of she ear and put they in she pocket , that at any rate she might save something ; the huckster run for he share-papers ; and the maid for she black silk mantilla , for she have find means to purchase one . each one want to save the best thing they have ; the goblin want to do the same thing , and in a few leap he be up the stair , and into the room of the student , who stand quite quietly at the open window , look at the conflagration that be rage in the house of the neighbor opposite . the goblin seize upon the wonderful book which lay upon the table , pop it into he red cap , and hold the cap tight with both hand . the great treasure of the house be save ; and now he run up and away , quite on to the roof of the house , on to the chimney . there he sit , illuminate by the flame of the burning house opposite , both hand press tightly over he cap , in which the treasure lay ; and now he know the real feeling of he heart , and know to whom it really belong . but when the fire be extinguish , and the goblin could think calmly again , why , then ... `` I must divide myself between the two , '' he say ; `` I can not quite give up the huckster , because of the porridge ! '' now , that be speak quite like a human creature . we all of we visit the huckster for the sake of the porridge .