the EPHESIAN MATRON La Fontain by La Fontaine if there be a tale more common than the rest , the one I mean to give be such confess . why choose it then ? you ask ; at whose desire ? Hast not enough already tune thy lyre ? what favor can thy MATRON now expect , since novelty thou clearly dost neglect ? besides , thou ` lt doubtless raise the critick 's rage . See if it look more modern in my page . AT Ephesus , in former time , once shone , a fair , whose charm would dignify a throne ; and , if to publick rumor credit 's due , celestial bliss she husband with she know . Naught else be talk of but she beauteous face , and chastity that add the highest grace ; from ev ` ry quarter number flock to see this belle , regard as from error free . the honor of she sex , and country too ; as such , old mother hold she up to view , and wish they offspring 's wife like she to act : the son desire the very same in fact ; from she , beyond a doubt , we PRUDES descend , a ancient , celebrated house , depend . the spouse adore he beauteous charming wife : but soon , alas ! he lose he precious life ; ` Twere useless on particulars to dwell : he testament , indeed , provide well for she he love on earth to fond excess , which , ` yond a doubt , would have relieve distress ; could gold a cherish husband 's loss repair , that fill she soul with black corroding care . a widow , howsoever , oft appear Distracted ` mid incessant flood of tear , who thoroughly she int ` rest recollect , and , spite of sob , she property inspect . OUR Matron 's cry be loudly hear around , and feeling bosom shudder at the sound ; Though , we , on these occasion , truly know , the plaint be always greater than the woe . some ostentation ever be with grief those who weep most the soonest gain relief . EACH friend endeavor to console the fair ; of sorrow , she would already have she share : 'twa wrong herself so fully to resign ; -- such pious preaching only more incline the soul to anguish ` mid distraction dire : extreme in ev ` ry thing will soonest tire . AT length , resolve to shun the glorious light , since she dear spouse no longer have the sight , o'erwhelm with grief she seek Death 's dreary cell , she love to follow , and with he to dwell . a SLAVE , through pity , with the widow go ; to live or die with she she be content ; to die , howe'er , she never could intend : no doubt she only think about she friend , the mistress whom she never wish to quit , since from she birth with she she use to sit . they love each other with a friendship true : from early year it daily stronger grow ; look through the universe you 'll scarcely find , so great a likeness , both in heart and mind . the slave , more clever than the lady fair , at first she mistress leave to wild despair ; she then essay to soothe each torment dire ; but reason 's fruitless , with a soul on fire . no consolation would the belle receive , for one no more , she constantly would grieve , and seek to follow he to region bless : -- the sword have shortest prove , if not the best . BUT still the lady anxious be to view , again those precious relick , and pursue , E ` en in the tomb what yet she soul hold dear no aliment she take she mind to cheer ; the gate of famine be the one she choose , by which to leave this nether world of woe . a DAY she pass ; another day the same ; she only sustenance , sob , sigh , and flame still unappeased ; she murmur would ` gainst she fate ; but nothing could she direful woe abate . ANOTHER corpse a residence have get , a trifle distance from the gloomy spot ; but very diff ` rent , since , by way of tomb , Enchained on gibbet be the latter 's doom ; to frighten robber be the form design , and show the punishment that rogue should find . a soldier , as a sentinel be set , to guard the gallows , who good payment meet ; 'Twas rule , howe'er , if robber , parent , friend , the body carry off , to make amends , the sentinel at once should take its place severity too great for such a case ; but publick safety fully to maintain , 'twa right the sentry pardon should not gain . while move round he post , he see at night Shine , cross the tomb , a strange , unusual light , which thither draw he , curious to unfold what , through the chink , he eyesight could behold . OUR wight soon hear the lady 's cry distressed , on which he enter , and with ardor press , the cause of such excessive grief to know , and if 'twa in he pow ` r to ease she woe . dissolve in tear , and quite o ` ercome with care ; she scarcely notice that a man be there . the corpse , howe'er , too plainly tell she pain , and fully seem the myst ` ry to explain . we have swear , exclaim the slave , what be ` yond belief , that here we 'll die of famine and of grief . though eloquence be not the soldier 's art , he both convinced 'twa wrong with life to part : the dame be great attention lead to pay , to what the son of Mars incline to say , which seem to soften she severe distress : with time each poignant smart be render less . if , say the soldier , you have make a vow , that you , some food to take will not allow ; yet , look on while I my supper eat , will not prolong you life , nor oath defeat . he open manner much be form to please ; the lady and she maid grow more at ease , which make the gen ` rous sentinel conclude , to bring he meat they would not fancy rude . this do , the slave no longer be incline to follow Death , as soon she change she mind . Said she , good madam , please thought I have get ; do not you believe that , if you live or not , ` ti to you husband ev ` ry whit the same ? have you go first , would he have have the name of follow to the grave as you design ? no , no , he have to another course incline . long year of comfort we may clearly crave ; at twenty year it be surely wrong to brave both death and famine in a gloomy tomb there be time enough to think of such a doom . at best , too soon we die ; do let we wait ; here 's nothing now at least to haste we fate . in truth , I wish to see a good old age : to bury charm like you 's , would that be sage ? of what advantage , I should wish to know , to carry beauty to the shades below ? those heavenly feature make my bosom sigh , to think from earthly praise they mean to fly . this flatt ` ry rouse the beauteous widow fair ; the god of soft persuasion soon be there , and from he quiver in a moment draw two arrow keen , which from he bow-string fly ; with one he pierce the soldier to the heart , the lady slightly feel the other dart . she youth and beauty , spite of tear , appear , and man of taste such charm have long revere ; a mind of tender feeling might , through life . Have love she -- even though she be a wife . the sentinel be smite with she charm ; Grief , pity , sigh , belong to Cupid 's arm ; when bosom heave and eye be drown in tear , then beauty oft with conq ` ring grace appear . BEHOLD we widow list ` ning to he praise , Incipient fuel Cupid 's flame to raise ; Behold she , even glad to view the wight , Whose well tim would flatt ` ry fill she with delight AT length , to eat he on the fair prevail , and please she better than the dead bewailed . so well he manage , that she change she plan , and , by degree , to love he fondly ` gan . the son of Mars a darling husband grow , while yet she former dear be full in view . meantime the corpse , that long in chain have swing , by thief be carry off from where it hang . the noise be hear , and thither run we wight ; but vain he effort : -- they be out of sight ; Confused , distressed , he seek again the tomb , to tell he grief and settle , ` mid the gloom , how best to act , and where he head to hide , since hang he must , the law would now decide . the slave reply , you gibbet-thief , you say , some lurk rogue this night have bear away : the law , it seem , will ne'er accord you grace the corpse that be here , let 's set in t ` other 's place : the passer-by the change will never tell the lady give consent , and all be well . O FICKLE female , ever you be the same ; a woman 's a woman , both in mind and name some fair we find , and some unlike the dive , but CONSTANCY be the highest charm of love . YE prude , for ever doubt of full success ; do not boast at all : too much you may profess , how good soever you design may be , not less be ours , you easily may see ; the MATRON 's tale be not beyond belief : to entertain , we object be in chief . the widow 's only error be she cry ; and mad design she life to sacrifice ; for , merely set husband-dead in place of one of this patibulary race , be surely not a fault so very grave : she lover 's life be what she seek to save . a LIVING drum-boy , truly be it say , be better far , than any monarch dead .