the MULETEER La Fontain the Lombard prince oft pervade my mind ; the present tale Boccace relate you 'll find ; Agiluf be the noble monarch 's name ; Teudelingua he marry , beauteous dame , the last king 's widow , who have leave no heir , and whose dominion prove we prince 's share . no beauty round compare could with the queen ; and ev ` ry blessing on the throne be see , when Cupid , in a playful moment , come , and o ` er Agiluf 's stable place he flame ; there leave it carelessly to burn at will , which soon begin a muleteer to fill , with LOVE 's all-powerful , all-consuming fire , that naught control , and youthful breast desire . the muleteer be please to the sight : Gallant , good-humoured , airy , and polite , and ev ` ry way he humble birth belie ; a handsome person , nor be sense deny ; he show it well , for when the youth beheld , with eye of love , the queen , who all excel , and ev ` ry effort anxiously have make , to stop the flame that would he heart invade ; when vain it prove , he take a prudent part : -- who can , like Cupid , manage wily art ? whate'er stupidity we may discern , he pupil more within a day can learn , than MASTERS knowledge in the school can gain , though they in study should ten year remain ; the lowest clown he presently inspire , with ev ` ry tendency that love require ; of this we present tale 's a proof direct , and none that feel -- its truth will e ` er suspect : the be ` rous muleteer he thought employ ; Consid ` ring how he wish might be enjoy . without success to certainty be bring , Life seem to he not worth a slender thought ; to hazard ev ` ry thing ; to live or die ! possession have ! -- or in the grave to lie ! the Lombard custom be , that when the king , who sleep not with he queen , -lrb-B- a common thing in other country too -rrb-B- , desire to greet he royal consort , and in bed to meet , a night-gown solely o ` er he back he throw , and then proceed to the interview , knock softly at the door , on which a fair , who wait on the queen with anxious care , allow the prince to enter ; take he light , -lrb-B- which only glimmer in the midst of night , -rrb-B- then put it out , and quickly leave the room : -- a little lantern to dispel the gloom , with waxen taper that emit ray -- in diff ` rent country various be they way ! OUR wily , prying , crafty muleteer , Knew well these form be current through the year : he , like the king , at night himself equip , and to the queen 's superb apartment slip . he face conceal the fellow try to keep ; the wait dame be more than half asleep ; the lover get access : -- soon all be clear ; the prince 's come he have but to fear , and , as the latter have , throughout the day , the chase attend a extensive way , 'twa more than probable he would not be lead , -lrb-B- since such fatigue he would have , -rrb-B- to quit he bed . perfumed , quite neat , and lively as a bird , we spark -lrb-B- safe enter -rrb-B- utter not a word . 'twa often customary with the king , when state affair , or other weighty thing , Displeasure give , to take of love he fill , yet let he tongue the while continue still . a singularity we need must own , with this the wife be long familiar grown . OUR be ` rous wight more joy than one receive , if we narrator of the tale 's believe ; -lrb-B- in bed a muleteer be worth three king , and value oft be find in humble thing . -rrb-B- the queen begin to think she husband 's rage have prove a stimulus such war to wage , and make he wond ` rous stout in pleasure 's sport , though all the while he thought be - ` bout the court . with perfect justice Heav ` n its gift bestow ; but equal talent all should not compose . the prince 's virtue doubtless be design , to take command , and govern o ` er mankind . the lawyer , point of difficulty view , decide with judgment , and the truth pursue . in Cupid 's scene the muleteer succeed : -- each have he part : -- none universal meed . with pleasure feast , we gallant retired , before the morn fresh blush have acquire . but scarcely have he leave the tender scene , ` ere king Agiluf come to see he queen , who much surprise express , and to he say : My dear , I know you love , but from this bed , you 'll recollect how recently you go , and have wonder do , should be content . for heav 'n' s sake , consider more you health ; ` tis dearer far to I than Croesus ' wealth . within the royal breast suspicion rise , but nothing then the monarch would disclose . he instantly withdraw without a word ; he sentiment to speak have be absurd , and to the stable fly , since he believe the circumstance , which he bosom grieve , Whate'er mysterious doubt might then appear , proceed from some be ` rous muleteer . when round the dorture he begin to creep , the troop appear as if dissolve in sleep , and so they truly be , save we gallant , whose terror make he tremble , sigh , and pant : no light the king have get ; it still be dark ; Agiluf grope about to find the spark , persuade that the culprit might be know , by rapid beating of the pulse alone . the thought be good ; to feel the prince begin , and at the second venture , find he man , who , whether from the pleasure he have enjoy , or fear , or dread discov ` ry to avoid , Experienced -lrb-B- spite of ev ` ry wily art , -rrb-B- at once quick beating of the pulse and heart . in doubt how this adventure yet might end , he think to seem asleep would he befriend . meanwhile the king , though not without much pain , obtain the scissors use for horse ' mane . with these , he say , I 'll mark the fond gallant , that I may know again the one I want . the monarch from the muleteer with care , in front , snipt off a bulky lock of hair . this have do , he suddenly withdraw ; but carelessly away the trophy throw ; of which the sly gallant advantage take , and thus the prince 's subtle project shake ; for instantly begin we artful spark , he fellow servant like himself to mark . when day arrive the monarch be surprise , to see each muleteer alike disguise ; no hair in front of either now be see ; why , how be this ? say he : what can it mean ? fifteen or more , if I believe my sight , my wife have satisfy this very night . well ! well ! he 'll now escape if mum he prove ; but there again I trust he ne'er shall move .