57 the Golden Bird BrothersS Grimm in the olden time there be a king , who have behind he palace a beautiful pleasure-garden in which there be a tree that bear golden apple . when the apple be get ripe they be count , but on the very next morning one be miss . this be tell to the King , and he order that a watch should be keep every night beneath the tree . the King have three son , the eldest of whom he send , as soon as night come on , into the garden ; but when midnight come he could not keep himself from sleep , and next morning again a apple be go . the following night the second son have to keep watch , it fare no better with he ; as soon as twelve o'clock have strike he fall asleep , and in the morning a apple be go . now it come to the turn of the third son to watch ; and he be quite ready , but the King have not much trust in he , and think that he would be of less use even than he brother ; but at last he let he go . the youth lay down beneath the tree , but keep awake , and do not let sleep master he . when it strike twelve , something rustle through the air , and in the moonlight he see a bird come whose feather be all shine with gold . the bird alight on the tree , and have just pluck off a apple , when the youth shoot a arrow at he . the bird fly off , but the arrow have strike he plumage , and one of he golden feather fall down . the youth pick it up , and the next morning take it to the King and tell he what he have see in the night . the King call he council together , and everyone declare that a feather like this be worth more than the whole kingdom . `` if the feather be so precious , '' declare the King , `` one alone will not do for I ; I must and will have the whole bird ! '' the eldest son set out ; he trust to he cleverness , and think that he would easily find the Golden Bird . when he have go some distance he see a Fox sit at the edge of a wood , so he cock he gun and take aim at he . the Fox cry , `` do not shoot I ! and in return I will give you some good counsel . you be on the way to the Golden Bird ; and this evening you will come to a village in which stand two inn opposite to one another . one of they be light up brightly , and all go on merrily within , but do not go into it ; go rather into the other , even though it seem a bad one . '' `` how can such a silly beast give wise advice ? '' think the King 's son , and he pull the trigger . but he miss the Fox , who stretch out he tail and run quickly into the wood . so he pursue he way , and by evening come to the village where the two inn be ; in one they be sing and dance ; the other have a poor , miserable look . `` I should be a fool , indeed , '' he think , `` if I be to go into the shabby tavern , and pass by the good one . '' so he go into the cheerful one , live there in riot and revel , and forget the bird and he father , and all good counsel . when some time have pass , and the eldest son for month after month do not come back home , the second set out , wish to find the Golden Bird . the Fox meet he as he have meet the eldest , and give he the good advice of which he take no heed . he come to the two inn , and he brother be stand at the window of the one from which come the music , and call out to he . he could not resist , but go inside and live only for pleasure . again some time pass , and then the King 's youngest son want to set off and try he luck , but he father would not allow it . `` it be of no use , '' say he , `` he will find the Golden Bird still less than he brother , and if a mishap be to befall he he know not how to help himself ; he be a little want at the best . '' but at last , as he have no peace , he let he go . again the Fox be sit outside the wood , and beg for he life , and offer he good advice . the youth be good-natured , and say , `` be easy , little Fox , I will do you no harm . '' `` you shall not repent it , '' answer the Fox ; `` and that you may get on more quickly , get up behind on my tail . '' and scarcely have he seat himself when the Fox begin to run , and away he go over stock and stone till he hair whistle in the wind . when they come to the village the youth get off ; he follow the good advice , and without look round turn into the little inn , where he spend the night quietly . the next morning , as soon as he get into the open country , there sit the Fox already , and say , `` I will tell you further what you have to do . go on quite straight , and at last you will come to a castle , in front of which a whole regiment of soldier be lie , but do not trouble yourself about they , for they will all be asleep and snore . go through the midst of they straight into the castle , and go through all the room , till at last you will come to a chamber where a Golden Bird be hang in a wooden cage . close by , there stand a empty gold cage for show , but beware of take the bird out of the common cage and put it into the fine one , or it may go badly with you . '' with these word the Fox again stretch out he tail , and the King 's son seat himself upon it , and away he go over stock and stone till he hair whistle in the wind . when he come to the castle he find everything as the Fox have say . the King 's son go into the chamber where the Golden Bird be shut up in a wooden cage , whilst a golden one stand hard by ; and the three golden apple lay about the room . `` but , '' think he , `` it would be absurd if I be to leave the beautiful bird in the common and ugly cage , '' so he open the door , lay hold of it , and put it into the golden cage . but at the same moment the bird utter a shrill cry . the soldier awake , rush in , and take he off to prison . the next morning he be take before a court of justice , and as he confess everything , be sentence to death . the King , however , say that he would grant he he life on one condition namely , if he bring he the Golden Horse which run faster than the wind ; and in that case he should receive , over and above , as a reward , the Golden Bird . the King 's son set off , but he sigh and be sorrowful , for how be he to find the Golden Horse ? but all at once he see he old friend the Fox sit on the road . `` look you , '' say the Fox , `` this have happen because you do not give heed to I . however , be of good courage . I will give you my help , and tell you how to get to the Golden Horse . you must go straight on , and you will come to a castle , where in the stable stand the horse . the groom will be lie in front of the stable ; but they will be asleep and snore , and you can quietly lead out the Golden Horse . but of one thing you must take heed ; put on he the common saddle of wood and leather , and not the golden one , which hang close by , else it will go ill with you . '' then the Fox stretch out he tail , the King 's son seat himself upon it , and away he go over stock and stone until he hair whistle in the wind . Everything happen just as the Fox have say ; the prince come to the stable in which the Golden Horse be stand , but just as he be go to put the common saddle upon he , he think , `` it will be a shame to such a beautiful beast , if I do not give he the good saddle which belong to he by right . '' but scarcely have the golden saddle touch the horse than he begin to neigh loudly . the groom awake , seize the youth , and throw he into prison . the next morning he be sentence by the court to death ; but the King promise to grant he he life , and the Golden Horse as well , if he could bring back the beautiful princess from the Golden Castle . with a heavy heart the youth set out ; yet luckily for he he soon find the trusty Fox . `` I ought only to leave you to you ill-luck , '' say the Fox , `` but I pity you , and will help you once more out of you trouble . this road take you straight to the Golden Castle , you will reach it by eventide ; and at night when everything be quiet the beautiful princess go to the bathing-house to bathe . when she enter it , run up to she and give she a kiss , then she will follow you , and you can take she away with you ; only do not allow she to take leave of she parent first , or it will go ill with you . '' then the Fox stretch out he tail , the King 's son seat himself upon it , and away the Fox go , over stock and stone , till he hair whistle in the wind . when he reach the Golden Castle it be just as the Fox have say . he wait until midnight , when everything lay in deep sleep , and the beautiful princess be go to the bathing-house . then he spring out and give she a kiss . she say that she would like to go with he , but she ask he pitifully , and with tear , to allow she first to take leave of she parent . at first he withstand she prayer , but when she weep more and more , and fall at he foot , he at last give in . but no sooner have the maiden reach the bedside of she father than he and all the rest in the castle awake , and the youth be lay hold of and put into prison . the next morning the King say to he , `` you life be forfeit , and you can only find mercy if you take away the hill which stand in front of my window , and prevent my see beyond it ; and you must finish it all within eight day . if you do that you shall have my daughter as you reward . '' the King 's son begin , and dig and shovel without leave off , but when after seven day he see how little he have do , and how all he work be as good as nothing , he fall into great sorrow and give up all hope . but on the evening of the seventh day the Fox appear and say , `` you do not deserve that I should take any trouble about you ; but just go away and lie down to sleep , and I will do the work for you . '' the next morning when he awake and look out of the window the hill have go . the youth run , full of joy , to the King , and tell he that the task be fulfil , and whether he like it or not , the King have to hold to he word and give he he daughter . so the two set forth together , and it be not long before the trusty Fox come up with they . `` you have certainly get what be best , '' say he , `` but the Golden Horse also belong to the maiden of the Golden Castle . '' `` how shall I get it ? '' ask the youth . `` that I will tell you , '' answer the Fox ; `` first take the beautiful maiden to the King who send you to the Golden Castle . there will be unheard-of rejoicing ; they will gladly give you the Golden Horse , and will bring it out to you . Mount it as soon as possible , and offer you hand to all in farewell ; last of all to the beautiful maiden . and as soon as you have take she hand swing she up on to the horse , and gallop away , and no one will be able to bring you back , for the horse run faster than the wind . '' all be carry out successfully , and the King 's son carry off the beautiful princess on the Golden Horse . the Fox do not remain behind , and he say to the youth , `` now I will help you to get the Golden Bird . when you come near to the castle where the Golden Bird be to be find , let the maiden get down , and I will take she into my care . then ride with the Golden Horse into the castle-yard ; there will be great rejoicing at the sight , and they will bring out the Golden Bird for you . as soon as you have the cage in you hand gallop back to we , and take the maiden away again . '' when the plan have succeed , and the King 's son be about to ride home with he treasure , the Fox say , `` now you shall reward I for my help . '' `` what do you require for it ? '' ask the youth . `` when you get into the wood yonder , shoot I dead , and chop off my head and foot . '' `` that would be fine gratitude , '' say the King 's son . `` I can not possibly do that for you . '' the Fox say , `` if you will not do it I must leave you , but before I go away I will give you a piece of good advice . be careful about two thing . buy no gallows ' - flesh , and do not sit at the edge of any well . '' and then he run into the wood . the youth thought , `` that be a wonderful beast , he have strange whim ; who be go to buy gallows ' - flesh ? and the desire to sit at the edge of a well it have never yet seize I . '' he ride on with the beautiful maiden , and he road take he again through the village in which he two brother have remain . there be a great stir and noise , and , when he ask what be go on , he be tell that two man be go to be hang . as he come nearer to the place he see that they be he brother , who have be play all kind of wicked prank , and have squander all they wealth . he inquire whether they could not be set free . `` if you will pay for they , '' answer the people ; `` but why should you waste you money on wicked man , and buy they free . '' he do not think twice about it , but pay for they , and when they be set free they all go on they way together . they come to the wood where the Fox have first meet they , as it be cool and pleasant within it , the two brother say , `` let we rest a little by the well , and eat and drink . '' he agree , and whilst they be talk he forget himself , and sit down upon the edge of the well without thinking of any evil . but the two brother throw he backwards into the well , take the maiden , the Horse , and the Bird , and go home to they father . `` here we bring you not only the Golden Bird , '' say they ; `` we have win the Golden Horse also , and the maiden from the Golden Castle . '' then be there great joy ; but the Horse would not eat , the Bird would not sing , and the maiden sit and weep . but the youngest brother be not dead . by good fortune the well be dry , and he fall upon soft moss without be hurt , but he could not get out again . even in this strait the faithful Fox do not leave he : it come and leap down to he , and upbraid he for have forget its advice . `` but yet I can not give it up so , '' he say ; `` I will help you up again into daylight . '' he bid he grasp he tail and keep tight hold of it ; and then he pull he up . `` you be not out of all danger yet , '' say the Fox . `` you brother be not sure of you death , and have surround the wood with watcher , who be to kill you if you let yourself be see . '' but a poor man be sit upon the road , with whom the youth change clothes , and in this way he get to the King 's palace . no one know he , but the Bird begin to sing , the Horse begin to eat , and the beautiful maiden leave off weep . the King , astonished , ask , `` what do this mean ? '' then the maiden say , `` I do not know , but I have be so sorrowful and now I be so happy ! I feel as if my true bridegroom have come . '' she tell he all that have happen , although the other brother have threaten she with death if she be to betray anything . the King command that all people who be in he castle should be bring before he ; and amongst they come the youth in he ragged clothes ; but the maiden know he at once and fall upon he neck . the wicked brother be seize and put to death , but he be marry to the beautiful maiden and declare heir to the King . but how do it fare with the poor Fox ? Long afterwards the King 's son be once again walk in the wood , when the Fox meet he and say , `` you have everything now that you can wish for , but there be never a end to my misery , and yet it be in you power to free I , '' and again he ask he with tear to shoot he dead and chop off he head and foot . so he do it , and scarcely be it do when the Fox be change into a man , and be no other than the brother of the beautiful princess , who at last be free from the magic charm which have be lay upon he . and now nothing more be want to they happiness as long as they live .