the tale of BENJAMIN BUNNY Beatrix Potter one morning a little rabbit sit on a bank . he prick he ear and listen to the trit-trot , trit-trot of a pony . a gig be come along the road ; it be drive by Mr. McGregor , and beside he sit Mrs. McGregor in she best bonnet . as soon as they have pass , little Benjamin Bunny slide down into the road , and set off -- with a hop , skip and a jump -- to call upon he relation , who live in the wood at the back of Mr. McGregor 's garden . that wood be full of rabbit hole ; and in the neatest sandiest hole of all , cousin -- Flopsy , Mopsy , Cotton-tail and Peter . Old Mrs. Rabbit be a widow ; she earn she living by knit rabbit-wool mitten and muffetee -lrb-B- I once buy a pair at a bazaar -rrb-B- . she also sell herb , and rosemary tea , and rabbit-tobacco -lrb-B- which be what WE call lavender -rrb-B- . LITTLE Benjamin do not very much want to see he Aunt . he come round the back of the fir-tree , and nearly tumble upon the top of he Cousin Peter . PETER be sit by himself . he look poorly , and be dress in a red cotton pocket-handkerchief . `` Peter , '' -- say little Benjamin , in a whisper -- `` who have get you clothes ? '' PETER reply -- `` the scarecrow in Mr. McGregor 's garden , '' and describe how he have be chase about the garden , and have drop he shoe and coat . Little Benjamin sit down beside he cousin , and assure he that Mr. McGregor have go out in a gig , and Mrs. McGregor also ; and certainly for the day , because she be wear she best bonnet . PETER say he hope that it would rain . at this point , old Mrs. Rabbit 's voice be hear inside the rabbit hole call -- `` cotton-tail ! cotton-tail ! fetch some more camomile ! '' Peter say he think he might feel better if he go for a walk . THEY go away hand in hand , and get upon the flat top of the wall at the bottom of the wood . from here they look down into Mr. McGregor 's garden . Peter 's coat and shoe be plainly to be see upon the scarecrow , top with a old tam-o - shanter of Mr. McGregor 's . LITTLE Benjamin say , `` it spoil people 's clothes to squeeze under a gate ; the proper way to get in , be to climb down a pear tree . '' Peter fall down head first ; but it be of no consequence , as the bed below be newly rake and quite soft . it have be sow with lettuce . they leave a great many odd little foot-marks all over the bed , especially little Benjamin , who be wear clog . LITTLE Benjamin say that the first thing to be do be to get back Peter 's clothes , in order that they might be able to use the pocket handkerchief . they take they off the scarecrow . there have be rain during the night ; there be water in the shoe , and the coat be somewhat shrink . Benjamin try on the tam - o-shanter , but it be too big for he . then he suggest that they should fill the pocket - handkerchief with onion , as a little present for he Aunt . Peter do not seem to be enjoy himself ; he keep hear noise . BENJAMIN , on the contrary , be perfectly at home , and eat a lettuce leaf . he say that he be in the habit of come to the garden with he father to get lettuce for they Sunday dinner . -lrb-B- the name of little Benjamin 's papa be old Mr. Benjamin Bunny . -rrb-B- the lettuce certainly be very fine . PETER do not eat anything ; he say he should like to go home . presently he drop half the onion . LITTLE Benjamin say that it be not possible to get back up the pear-tree , with a load of vegetable . he lead the way boldly towards the other end of the garden . they go along a little walk on plank , under a sunny red - brick wall . the mouse sit on they door - step crack cherry-stones , they wink at Peter Rabbit and little Benjamin Bunny . PRESENTLY Peter let the pocket-handkerchief go again . THEY get amongst flower - pot , and frame and tub ; Peter hear noise worse than ever , he eye be as big as lolly-pops ! he be a step or two in front of he cousin , when he suddenly stop . THIS be what those little rabbit see round that corner ! Little Benjamin take one look , and then , in half a minute less than no time , he hide himself and Peter and the onion underneath a large basket ... the cat get up and stretch herself , and come and sniff at the basket . perhaps she like the smell of onion ! anyway , she sit down upon the top of the basket . SHE sit there for five hour . I can not draw you a picture of Peter and Benjamin underneath the basket , because it be quite dark , and because the smell of onion be fearful ; it make Peter Rabbit and little Benjamin cry . the sun get round behind the wood , and it be quite late in the afternoon ; but still the cat sit upon the basket . AT length there be a pitter - patter , pitter-patter , and some bit of mortar fall from the wall above . the cat look up and see old Mr. Benjamin Bunny prance along the top of the wall of the upper terrace . he be smoke a pipe of rabbit-tobacco , and have a little switch in he hand . he be look for he son . OLD Mr. Bunny have no opinion whatever of cat . he take a tremendous jump off the top of the wall on to the top of the cat , and cuff it off the basket , and kick it into the garden-house , scratch off a handful of fur . the cat be too much surprised to scratch back . when old Mr. Bunny have drive the cat into the green-house , he lock the door . then he come back to the basket and take out he son Benjamin by the ear , and whip he with the little switch . then he take out he nephew Peter . then he take out the handkerchief of onion , and march out of the garden . when Mr. McGregor return about half a hour later , he observe several thing which perplex he . it look as though some person have be walk all over the garden in a pair of clog -- only the foot-marks be too ridiculously little ! also he could not understand how the cat could have manage to shut herself up inside the green-house , lock the door upon the OUTSIDE . when Peter get home , he mother forgive he , because she be so glad to see that he have find he shoe and coat . cotton-tail and Peter fold up the pocket - handkerchief , and old Mrs. Rabbit string up the onion and hang they from the kitchen ceiling , with the rabbit-tobacco . the end