the GASCON PUNISHED La Fontain A GASCON -lrb-B- be hear one day to swear , that he would possess 'd a certain lovely fair , -rrb-B- be play a wily trick , and nicely serve ; 'twa clear , from truth he shamefully have swerve : but those who scandal propagate below , be prophet think , and ev ` ry action know ; while good , if speak , scarcely be believe , and must be view , or not for truth receive . the dame , indeed , the Gascon only jeer , and e ` er deny herself when he appear ; but when she meet the wight , who seek to shine ; and call she angel , beauteous and divine , she flee and hasten to a female friend , where she could laugh , and at she ease unbend . NEAR Phillis , -lrb-B- we fair fugitive -rrb-B- there dwell one Eurilas , he nearest neighbor hold ; he wife be Cloris ; 'twa with she we dive Took shelter from the Gascon 's forward love , Whose name be Dorilas ; and Damon young , -lrb-B- the Gascon 's friend -rrb-B- on whom gay Cloris hang . SWEET Phillis , by she manner , you might see , from sly amours and dark intrigue be free ; the value to possess she no one know , though all admire the lovely belle at view . just twenty year she count at the time , and now a widow be , though in she prime , -lrb-B- she spouse , a age dotard , worth a plum : -- of those whose loss to mourn no tear e ` er come . -rrb-B- OUR seraph fair , such loveliness possess , in num ` rous way a Gascon could have bless ; Above , below , appear angelic charm ; 'Twas Paradise , 'twa Heav ` n , within she arm ! the Gascon be -- a Gascon ; -- would you more ? who know a Gascon know at least a score . I need not say what solemn vow he make ; Alike with NormansS GasconsS be portray ; they oath , indeed , will not pass for Gospel truth ; but we believe that Dorilas -lrb-B- the youth -rrb-B- love Phillis to he soul , we lady fair , yet he would fain be think successful there . one day , say Phillis , with unusual glee , pretend with the Gascon to be free : -- a favor do I : -- nothing very great ; assist to dupe one jealous of he mate ; you 'll find it very easy to be do , and doubtless ` twill produce a deal of fun . ` Tis we request -lrb-B- the plot you 'll say be deep , -rrb-B- that you this night with Cloris 's husband sleep some disagreement with she gay gallant require , that she a night at least should grant , to settle diff ` rence ; now we desire , that you 'll to bed with EurilasS retire , there be not a doubt he 'll think he Cloris near ; he never touch she : -- so nothing fear ; for whether jealousy , or other pain , he constantly from intercourse abstain , snore through the night , and , if a cap he see , believe he wife in bed , and feel at ease . we 'll properly equip you as a belle , and I will certainly reward you well . to gain but Phillis 's smile , the Gascon say , he would with the very devil go to bed . the night arrive , we wight the chamber trace ; the light extinguish ; Eurilas , too , place ; the Gascon ` gan to tremble in a trice , and soon with terror grow as cold as ice ; Durst neither spit nor cough ; still less encroach ; and seem to shrink , least t ` other should approach ; Crept near the edge ; would scarcely room afford , and could have pass the scabbard of a sword . OFT in the night he bed-fellow turn round ; at length a finger on he nose he find , which Dorilas exceedingly distressed ; but more inquietude be in he breast , for fear the husband amorous should grow , from which incalculable ill might flow . OUR Gascon ev ` ry minute know alarm ; 'Twas now a leg stretch out , and then a arm ; he even think he feel the husband 's beard ; but presently arrive what more he fear . a BELL , conveniently , be near the bed , which Eurilas to ring be often lead ; at this the Gascon swoon , so great he fear , and swear , for ever he would renounce he dear . but no one come , Eurilas , once more , resume he place , and ` gan again to snore . AT length , before the sun he head have rear ; the door be open , and a torch appear . misfortune then he fancy full in sight ; more pleased he would be to rise without a light , and clearly think 'twa over with he now ; the flame approach ; -- the drop run o ` er he brow ; with terror he for pardon humbly pray : -- you have it , cry a fair : be not dismayed ; 'Twas Phillis speak , who EurilasS 's place have fill , throughout the night , with wily grace , and now to Damon and he Cloris fly , with ridicule the Gascon to pursue ; recount all the terror and affright , which Dorilas have feel throughout the night . to mortify still more the silly swain , and fill he soul with ev ` ry poignant pain , she give a glimpse of beauty to he view , and from he presence instantly withdraw .