the CRADLE La Fontain NEAR Rome , of yore , close to the Florence road , be see a humble innkeeper 's abode ; small sum be charge ; few guest the night would stay ; and these could seldom much afford to pay . a please active partner have the host she age not much ` bove thirty at the most ; two child she she loving husband bear ; the boy be one year old : the daughter more ; just fifteen summer o ` er she form have smile ; in person charming , and in temper mild . it happen that Pinucio , young and gay , a youth of family , oft pass the way , admire the girl , and think she might be gain , Attentions show , and like return obtain ; the mistress be not deaf , nor lover mute ; Pinucio seem the lady 's taste to suit , of please person and engaging air ; and ` mong the equal of we youthful fair , as yet , not one a pref ` rence have receive ; nor have she e ` er in golden dream believe ; but , spite of tender year , she mind be high , and village lad she would not let come nigh . COLUTTA , -lrb-B- such she name , -rrb-B- though much admire ; and many in the place she hand desire , reject some , and other would not take , and this most clearly for Pinucio 's sake . long conversation she could rarely get , and various obstacle the lover meet ; no interview where they might be at ease , but ev ` ry thing conspire to fret and teaze . O parent , husband ! be advise by I ; constraint with wife or child will not agree ; ` Tis then the god of love exert he art , to find admittance to the throbbing heart . PINUCIO and a friend , one stormy night , the landlord 's reach and would in haste alight ; they ask for bed , but be too late they find : you know , sir , cry the host , we do not abound ; and now the very garret we have let : you would better elsewhere try you wish to get , and spite of weather , further on pursue at best , we lodging be unfit for you . HAVE you no truckle bed ? the lover cry ; no corner leave ? -- we fain would here abide : why , truly , say the host , we always keep two bed within the chamber where we sleep ; my wife and I , of course , take one of these ; together lie in t ` other if you please . the spark reply , this we will gladly do ; come , supper get ; that o ` er , the friend withdraw : Pinucio , by Coletta 's sage advice , in look o ` er the room be very nice ; with eagle-eyes particulars he trace , then ` tween the clothes himself and friend he place . a camp-bed for the girl be on the floor ; the landlord 's , ` gainst the wall and next the door ; another opposite the last be set , and this , to guest , at certain time be let ; and ` tween the two , but near the parent ' best , a cradle for the child to rest its head , from which a pleasant accident arrive , that we gallant 's young friend of rest deprive . when midnight come , and this gay spark suppose the host and hostess ' eye in sleep be close , convince the time appoint be at hand , to put in execution what be plan , he to the camp-bed silently repair , and find the belle by Morpheus not insnare ; Coletta teach a play that mortal find fatigue the body more than plague the mind : a truce succeed , but 'twa quickly o ` er : those rest not long who pilfer Cupid 's store . AGAIN , when to the room the hostess come , and find the cradle rest not the same , good heav ` n ! cry she , it join my husband 's head : and , but for that , I truly have be lead to lay myself unthinkingly beside the stranger whom with lodge we provide ; but , God be praise , this cradle show the place where my good husband 's pillow I must trace . this say , she with the friend be quickly lay , without suspect what mistake she have make . between the lover all be blithe and gay , when suddenly the friend , though far from day , be force to rise -lrb-B- 'twa plain a pressing case , -rrb-B- and move the infant 's cradle from its place , to ope the door , and lest he noise might make , or any way by chance the child should wake , he set it carefully beside he bed , and -lrb-B- softly tread -rrb-B- to the garden speed . on he return he pass the cradle by ; to place it as before he would not try , but go to sleep ; when presently a sound , from something that have tumble , ring around , Awoke he wife , who run below , that what have happen she might clearly know . no fool in such adventure be we Wight : the opportunity he would not slight , but play the husband well : no , no , I be wrong ; he play it ill : -- too oft , too much , too long ; for whosoe'er would wish to do it well , should softly go : -- the gentle most excel . in truth , the wife be quite surprised to find she spouse so much to frolic inclined ; Said she , what ail the man , he be grow so gay ? a lad of twenty 's not more fond of play . well ! let 's enjoy the moment while we can ; God 's will be do , since life be but a span ! the word be scarcely say , when we gallant renew he fun , and nothing seem to want ; indeed , the hostess still she charm possess , and , on occasion , well might be caress . MEANWHILE Coletta , dread a surprise , prevail upon she paramor to rise ; 'Twas nearly break of day when he withdraw , but , grope to he place the way anew , Pinucio , by the cradle too , be lead to miss he friend 's and take the landlord 's bed . no sooner in than with a under voice , -lrb-B- Intriguers oft too eagerly rejoice , -rrb-B- say he , my friend , I wish I could relate the pleasure I have receive ; my bliss be great ; to you , I be sorry , Fortune prove so cold ; like happiness I would fain in you behold ; Coletta be a morsel for a king ; Inestimable girl ! -- to I she 'll cling . I have many see , but such a charming fair , there be not another like she any where . with softest skin , delightful form and mien ; she ev ` ry act resemble BEAUTY 's queen ; in short , before we would end with we fun , six post -lrb-B- without a fiction -rrb-B- we have run . the host be strike with what the spark averred , and muttered something indistinctly hear . the hostess whisper HIM she think she spouse : -- again , my dear , such spark let 's never house ; Pray do not you hear how they together chat ? -- just then the husband raise himself and sit ; be this you plan ? say he with mighty rage ; be it for THIS you would my house engage ? you understand I , but I 'll seek redress ; think you so very cheap to have success ? what , would you ruin family at will , and with we daughter take at ease you fill ? away , I say ! my house this moment quit ; and as for you , abominable chit , I 'll have you life : this hour you breathe you last ; such creature only can with beast be class . PINUCIO hear the lecture with dismay , at once be mute , and grow as cold as clay ; a moment 's silence through the room prevail ; Coletta tremble , and she lot bewail . the hostess now , on ev ` ry side perceive she peril great , and for the error grieve . the friend , howe'er , the cradle call to mind , which cause the many ill we have see combine , and instantly he cry : -- Pinucio ! strange you thus allow yourself about to range ; do I not tell you when the wine you take , ` Twould make many sad misfortune hook ? Whene'er you freely drink , ` tis know fall well , you sleep 's disturbed , you walk , and nonsense tell . come , come to bed : the morning soon will peep ; Pinucio take the hint , pretended sleep , and carry on so artfully the wile , the husband no suspicion have of guile . the stratagem we hostess likewise try , and to she daughter 's bed in silence hie , where she conceive she fortress be so strong , she presently begin to use she tongue , and cry aloud : -- impossible the fact ; such thing he could not with Coletta act ; I have with she be in bed throughout the night , and she , no more than I , have swerve from right ; ` twere mighty pretty , truly , here to come ; at this the host a little while be dumb ; but in a lower tone at length reply I nought with you account I be satisfied . the party rise ; the titter circle round ; and each sufficient reason for it find ; the whole be secret , and whoe'er have gain , with care upon the subject mute remain .