the convent gardener of LAMPORECHIO La Fontain when cupid with he dart , would heart assail , the rampart most secure be not the VEIL ; a husband better will the FAIR protect , than wall or lattice , I much suspect . those parent , who in nunnery have get they daughter -lrb-B- whether willingly or not -rrb-B- , most clearly in a glaring error prove , to fancy God will round they action move ; ` tis a abuse of what we hold divine ; the Devil with they surely must combine . besides , ` twere folly to suppose that vice ne'er enter convent wall , and nun be ice . a very diff ` rent sentiment I hold : girl , who in publick move , however bold , have greater terror lest they get a stain ; for , honor lose , they never fame regain . few enemy they modesty attack ; the other have but one they mind to rack . temptation , daughter of the drowsy dame , that hate to move , and IDLENESS we name , be ever practise each wily art , to spread she snare around the throb heart ; and fond desire , the child of lorn CONSTRAINT , be anxious to the soul soft scene to paint . if I have a worthy daughter make a nun , be that a reason she be a saint ? -- Mere fun ! Avaunt such folly ! -- three in four you 'll find , of those who wear the veil -- have change they mind ; they finger bite , and often do much worse : those convent vow , full soon , become a curse ; such thing at least have sometimes reach my ear -lrb-B- for doubtless I must speak from other here -rrb-B- ; of he Boccace a merry tale have tell , which into rhyme I have put , as you 'll behold . within a nunnery , in day of yore , a good old man supply the garden-store ; the nun , in general , be smart and gay , and keep they tongue in motion through the day . religious duty they regard less , than for the palor \* to be nice in dress arrange ev ` ry article to please , that each might captivate and charm at ease ; the change constantly they ring around , and make the convent-walls with din resound . eight sister and a abbess hold the place , and strange to say -- there DISCORD you might trace . all nine have youth , and many beauty too : young friar round the place be oft in view , who reckon ev ` ry step they take so well , that always in the proper road they fall . Th ' age gard ` ner , of whom ere now we speak , be oft bewilder , they would so provoke ; Capricious , whimsical , from day to day , each would command and try to have she way ; and as they ne'er agree among themselves , he suffer more than if with fifty elf ; when one be pleased , another soon complain : at length to quit the nun he be constrain . he leave they , poor and wretch as he come ; no cross , pile , money : -- e ` en he coat the same . a youth of Lamporechio , gay and bold , one day this gard ` ner meet as I be tell ; and after conversation ` bout the place , Said , he should like nun 's service to embrace , and that he wish sincerely to be hire : he would grati do whatever be require . 'twa clear indeed he object be not pelf ; he think however he might reward himself ; and as the sister be not over wise , a nun he now and then might make he prize ; Proceed from one to more with like address , till with the whole he would have complete success . Said Nuto -lrb-B- such we find the gard ` ner 's name -rrb-B- , Believe I , friend , you will be much to blame ; some other service seek , I recommend ; these convent-dames will ne'er they whimsey end . I would rather live without or soup or bread , than work for they , however nicely feed . strange creature be these nun , upon my word ; they way ridiculous and e ` en absurd ; who , with the sisterhood , have never be , have clearly yet , not perfect torment see , such service , prithee , never try to gain ; to do what they require I know be vain ; one will have soft , and t ` other ask for hard : Thou ` lt be a fool such ninny to regard ; no work thou ` lt do , whatever be the want : THIS cabbage , -- that carrot tell thee plant : Said t ` other , fain I would bring it to the test ; I be but a simpleton , it be confess ; yet still a month in place , and thou wilt see ; how well I with the convent-dames agree . the reason be , my life be in its prime , while thou art sink in year and worn by time , I be proper for they work , and only ask , to be admit to the drudge task . well , say the former , if resolve to try , to they factotum instantly apply ; come ; let 's away . lead on , the other cried ; I have get a thought , which I 'll to you confide : -- I 'll seem a idiot , and quite dumb appear . -- in that , say Nuto , only persevere , and then perhaps the confessor thou ` lt find , with they factotum carelessly incline ; no fear nor dark suspicion of a mute : Thou ` lt ev ` ry way , my friend , they wish suit . the place , as be expect , soon he get ; and half the grounds to trench , at once he lot : he act well the nincompoop and fool , yet still be steady to the garden tool ; the nun continually would flock around , and much amusement in he antick find . one day , as sleep lay we sprightly wight , or feign sleep , no matter which be right , -lrb-B- Boccace pretend the latter be the fact -rrb-B- two nun -lrb-B- perhaps not two the most exact , -rrb-B- observe he extend on the sward , while summer 's heat from air so much debar ; that few would venture from the convent-roof , Lest , ` gainst the sun , they cheek should not be proof : Said one , approach he , let 's take this fool , and place he in the garden-house to cool . the lad be handsome , with engaging mien : the nun admire the feature she have see , and Cupid raise a wish to be at ease , where she , without restraint , herself might please . what would you , cry the other , with he do ? you 'll see , rejoin the first , if we pursue ; just what might be expect from the place ; Christ ! say the second -lrb-B- with a cross of grace -rrb-B- , you would not surely do what be forbid ? suppose increase ? it never could be hide ; besides , should we be see , ` twill be the cause , of dire disgrace to break such sacred law . we shall not be observe , the first reply ; these ill thy fancy form : haste , let 's decide , and seize the moment while ` ti in we reach , without regard to what old dotard teach , or what may happen at a future hour ; here 's no one near : ` tis fully in we pow ` r ; the time and place so thoroughly agree , ` Twill be impossible we freak to see ; but ` twill be right that one should watch with care ; while t ` other with the lad seek joy to share , and irksome gloom endeavor to dispel : he be dumb , you know , and tale can never tell . the other answer , since ` tis you desire , I 'll acquiesce and do what you require ; you 'll take he first : I see it be you aim ; and since it will oblige , I 'll wave my claim ; Go , pleasure seek , and satisfy each wish : you be always anxious for a fav ` rite dish ; ` ti only to oblige that I comply . that , say the other , clearly I descry ; I be well persuade , thou art always kind ; but still I think thou would ` st not be incline ; in such a scene to take the lead part , Thy bashfulness would counteract thy heart . some time the squeamish sister watch the spot ; at length the other , who have she wish get , the station take ; the lab ` rer try to please the second as the first , but less at ease ; so many favor fall not to she share , and only treble comfort prove she fare . the garden-path , and summer-house as well , be well remember by each wanton belle ; no need of guide ; and soon we spark contrived ; with sister Agnes also to be hive a press-house at the convent end he choose , in which he show she how soft pleasure flow ; nor Claudia nor Angelica would miss the dormitory that , and cellar this ; in short the garret and the vaulted cave know fully how the sister could behave ; not one but what he first or last regale E ` en with the rigid abbess he prevail , to take a dance , and as the dame require she treble share of what be most admire , the other nun be oft oblige to fast , while with the convent-head he time be pass . to no restorative we Wight would run ; Though these do little , where much work be do : so oft the lad be press for cheer play , that with the abbess , when engage one day , he say , where'er I go , ` tis common talk , with only sev ` n a able bird should walk , yet constantly I have get no less than nine : -- the abbess cried , -- a miracle divine ! here nun , pray haste , and quickly come around ; we have fast with success : -- he tongue be find . the eight encircle he with great surprise ; no longer dumb . -- they view with eager eye : a consultation instantly be have , when 'twa agree to honor well the lad , and try to make he secrecy observe ; but if dismiss , from silence he might swerve . the active youth , well feed , well pay , thus bless , do all he could , -- and other do the rest . he for the nun procure a little lot , that afterward two little friar get , and in the sequel father soon become ; the sister mother too , in spite of shame ; but never name more justly be apply : in vain they mystery they strive to hide . \* the parlor in a convent be the room where the nun be permit to speak to they friend through a lattice .