169 the Hut in the Forest BrothersS Grimm A poor wood-cutter live with he wife and three daughter in a little hut on the edge of a lonely forest . one morning as he be about to go to he work , he say to he wife , `` let my dinner be bring into the forest to I by my eldest daughter , or I shall never get my work do , and in order that she may not miss she way , '' he add , `` I will take a bag of millet with I and strew the seed on the path . '' when , therefore , the sun be just above the center of the forest , the girl set out on she way with a bowl of soup , but the field-sparrows , and wood-sparrows , lark and finch , blackbird and siskin have pick up the millet long before , and the girl could not find the track . then trust to chance , she go on and on , until the sun sink and night begin to fall . the tree rustle in the darkness , the owl hoot , and she begin to be afraid . then in the distance she perceive a light which glimmer between the tree . `` there ought to be some people live there , who can take I in for the night , '' think she , and go up to the light . it be not long before she come to a house the window of which be all light up . she knock , and a rough voice from inside cried , `` come in . '' the girl step into the dark entrance , and knock at the door of the room . `` just come in , '' cry the voice , and when she open the door , a old gray-haired man be sit at the table , support he face with both hand , and he white beard fall down over the table almost as far as the ground . by the stove lay three animal , a hen , a cock , and a brindle cow . the girl tell she story to the old man , and beg for shelter for the night . the man say , `` Pretty little hen , Pretty little cock , and pretty brindle cow , what say ye to that ? '' `` duk , '' answer the animal , and that must have mean , `` we be willing , '' for the old man say , `` here you shall have shelter and food , go to the fire , and cook we we supper . '' the girl find in the kitchen abundance of everything , and cook a good supper , but have no thought of the animal . she carry the full dish to the table , seat herself by the gray-haired man , eat and satisfy she hunger . when she have have enough , she say , `` but now I be tired , where be there a bed in which I can lie down , and sleep ? '' the animal reply , `` Thou hast eat with he , Thou hast drunk with he , Thou hast have no thought for we , so find out for thyself where thou canst pass the night . '' then say the old man , `` just go upstairs , and thou wilt find a room with two bed , shake they up , and put white linen on they , and then I , too , will come and lie down to sleep . '' the girl go up , and when she have shake the bed and put clean sheet on , she lay down in one of they without wait any longer for the old man . after some time , however , the gray-haired man come , take he candle , look at the girl and shake he head . when he see that she have fall into a sound sleep , he open a trap-door , and let she down into the cellar . late at night the wood-cutter come home , and reproach he wife for leave he to hunger all day . `` it be not my fault , '' she reply , `` the girl go out with you dinner , and must have lose herself , but she be sure to come back to-morrow . '' the wood-cutter , however , arise before dawn to go into the forest , and request that the second daughter should take he he dinner that day . `` I will take a bag with lentil , '' say he ; `` the seed be larger than millet , the girl will see they better , and can not lose she way . '' at dinner-time , therefore , the girl take out the food , but the lentil have disappear . the bird of the forest have pick they up as they have do the day before , and have leave none . the girl wander about in the forest until night , and then she too reach the house of the old man , be tell to go in , and beg for food and a bed . the man with the white beard again ask the animal , `` Pretty little hen , Pretty little cock , and pretty brindle cow , what say ye to that ? '' the animal again reply `` Duks , '' and everything happen just as it have happen the day before . the girl cook a good meal , eat and drink with the old man , and do not concern herself about the animal , and when she inquire about she bed they answer , `` Thou hast eat with he , Thou hast drunk with he , Thou hast have no thought for we , to find out for thyself where thou canst pass the night . '' when she be asleep the old man come , look at she , shake he head , and let she down into the cellar . on the third morning the wood-cutter say to he wife , `` send we youngest child out with my dinner to-day , she have always be good and obedient , and will stay in the right path , and not run about after every wild humble-bee , as she sister do . '' the mother do not want to do it , and say , `` be I to lose my dearest child , as well ? '' `` have no fear , '' he reply , `` the girl will not go astray ; she be too prudent and sensible ; besides I will take some pea with I , and strew they about . they be still larger than lentil , and will show she the way . '' but when the girl go out with she basket on she arm , the wood-pigeons have already get all the pea in they crop , and she do not know which way she be to turn . she be full of sorrow and never cease to think how hungry she father would be , and how she good mother would grieve , if she do not go home . at length when it grow dark , she see the light and come to the house in the forest . she beg quite prettily to be allow to spend the night there , and the man with the white beard once more ask he animal , `` Pretty little hen , Pretty little cock , and beautiful brindled cow , what say ye to that ? '' `` duk , '' say they . then the girl go to the stove where the animal be lie , and pet the cock and hen , and stroke they smooth feather with she hand , and caress the brindle cow between she horn , and when , in obedience to the old man 's order , she have make ready some good soup , and the bowl be place upon the table , she say , `` be I to eat as much as I want , and the good animal to have nothing ? outside be food in plenty , I will look after they first . '' so she go and bring some barley and stew it for the cock and hen , and a whole armful of sweet-smelling hay for the cow . `` I hope you will like it , dear animal , '' say she , `` and you shall have a refreshing draught in case you be thirsty . '' then she fetch in a bucketful of water , and the cock and hen jump on to the edge of it and dip they beak in , and then hold up they head as the bird do when they drink , and the brindle cow also take a hearty draught . when the animal be feed , the girl seat herself at the table by the old man , and eat what he have leave . it be not long before the cock and the hen begin to thrust they head beneath they wing , and the eye of the cow likewise begin to blink . then say the girl , `` Ought we not to go to bed ? '' `` Pretty little hen , Pretty little cock , and pretty brindle cow , what say ye to that ? '' the animal answer `` Duks , '' `` Thou hast eat with we , Thou hast drunk with we , Thou hast have kind think for all of we , we wish thee good-night . '' then the maiden go upstairs , shake the feather-beds , and lay clean sheet on they , and when she have do it the old man come and lay down on one of the bed , and he white beard reach down to he foot . the girl lay down on the other , say she prayer , and fall asleep . she sleep quietly till midnight , and then there be such a noise in the house that she awake . there be a sound of crack and splitting in every corner , and the door spring open , and beat against the wall . the beam groan as if they be be tear out of they joint , it seem as if the staircase be fall down , and at length there be a crash as if the entire roof have fall in . as , however , all grow quiet once more , and the girl be not hurt , she stay quietly lie where she be , and fall asleep again . but when she wake up in the morning with the brilliancy of the sunshine , what do she eye behold ? she be lie in a vast hall , and everything around she shone with royal splendor ; on the wall , golden flower grow up on a ground of green silk , the bed be of ivory , and the canopy of red velvet , and on a chair close by , be a pair of shoe embroider with pearl . the girl believe that she be in a dream , but three richly clad attendant come in , and ask what order she would like to give ? `` if you will go , '' she reply , `` I will get up at once and make ready some soup for the old man , and then I will feed the pretty little hen , and the cock , and the beautiful brindled cow . '' she think the old man be up already , and look round at he bed ; he , however , be not lie in it , but a stranger . and while she be look at he , and become aware that he be young and handsome , he awake , sit up in bed , and say , `` I be a King 's son , and be bewitch by a wicked witch , and make to live in this forest , as a old gray-haired man ; no one be allow to be with I but my three attendant in the form of a cock , a hen , and a brindle cow . the spell be not to be break until a girl come to we whose heart be so good that she show herself full of love , not only towards mankind , but towards animal -- and that thou hast do , and by thee at midnight we be set free , and the old hut in the forest be change back again into my royal palace . '' and when they have arise , the King 's son order the three attendant to set out and fetch the father and mother of the girl to the marriage feast . `` but where be my two sister ? '' inquire the maiden . `` I have lock they in the cellar , and to-morrow they shall be lead into the forest , and shall live as servant to a charcoal-burner , until they have grow kinder , and do not leave poor animal to suffer hunger . ''