the trucker La Fontain the change of food enjoyment be to man ; in this , t ` include the woman be my plan . I can not guess why Rome will not allow Exchange in wedlock , and its leave avow ; not ev ` ry time such wish might arise , but , once in life at least , ` twere not unwise ; perhaps one day we may the boon obtain ; amen , I say : my sentiment be plain ; the privilege in France may yet arrive there trucking please , and exchange thrive ; the people love variety , we find ; and such by heav ` n be ere for they design . once there dwell , near Rouen , -lrb-B- sapient clime -rrb-B- two villager , whose wife be in they prime , and rather please in they shape and mien , for those in whom refinement 's scarcely see . each looker-on conceive , LOVE need not greet such humble wight , as he would prelate treat . it happen , howsoe'er , both weary grown , of half that they so long have call they own ; one holyday , with they there chance to drink the village lawyer -lrb-B- breed in Satan 's sink -rrb-B- ; to he , say one of these , with jeer air , good mister Oudinet , a strange affair be in my head : you have doubtless often make Variety of contract ; ` tis you trade : now , can not you contrive , by one of these , that man should barter wife , like goods , at ease ? we pastor oft he benefice have change ; be trucking wife less easily arrange ? it can not be , for well I recollect , that Parson Gregory -lrb-B- whom none suspect -rrb-B- would always say , or much my mem ` ry fail , my flock 's my wife : love equally prevail ; he change ; let we , good neighbor do the same ; with all my heart , say t ` other , that be my aim ; but well thou know ` st that mine 's the fairest face , and , Mister Oudinet , since that be the case , should he not add , at least , he mule to boot ? my mule ? rejoin the first , that will not suit ; in this world ev ` ry thing have get its price : Mine I will change for thine and that be concise . wife be not view so near ; naught will I add ; why , neighbor Stephen , dost thou think I mad , to give my mule to boot ? -- of mule the king ; not e ` en a ass I would to the bargain bring ; Change wife for wife , the barter will be fair ; then each will act with t ` other on the square . the village lawyer now the friend address : Said he , Antoinetta be confess to have superior charm to those of Jane ; but still , if I may venture to be plain , not always be the best what meet the eye , for many beauty in concealment lie , which I prefer ; and these be hide with care ; Deceptions , too , be practice by the FAIR ; Howe'er , we wish the whole to be disclose , too much , ` ti say , they must not be expose . now , neighbor , let we fair arrangement make : a pig in poke you would neither give nor take ; Confront these half in nature 's birth-day suit ; to neither , then , will you deceit impute . the project be most thoroughly approve ; like inclination both the husband move . ANTOINETTA , say the second spouse , have neither ill nor scratch she fear to rouse . Jane , cry the first , be ev ` ry way complete ; no freckle on the skin : as balm she be sweet : Antoinetta be , she spouse reply , Ambrosia ev ` ry way : no fault to hide . say t ` other : -- do not so confident appear ; Thou know ` st not Jane : she way would marble cheer ; and there be a play : -- thou understand ` st no doubt ? to this rejoin the second village lout , one diff ` rence only have my wife and I : which play the prettiest wiles be what we try ; Thou ` lt very soon of these know how to think ; here be to thee , neighbor ; Mister Oud ` net , drink ; come , toast Antoinetta ; likewise Jane ; the mule be grant , and the bargain plain : we village lawyer promise to prepare , at once , the writings , which would all declare . this Oudinet a good apostle prove well pay for parchment , or he never move : by whom be payment make ? -- by both the dame ; on neither husband show he any claim . the village clown some little time suppose that all be secret : not a hint disclose ; the parson of it , howsoe'er , obtain some intimation , and he off ` ring gain . I be not present , fully I admit ; but rarely clergymen they due will quit . the very clerk would not remit he fee : -- all those who serve the church in this agree . the permutation could not well be make , but scandal would such practice upbraid ; in country village each step be see ; thus , round the whisper go of what have be , and place at length the thorn where all be ease ; the pow ` r divine alone it could displease . 'twa pleasant they together to behold ; the wife , in emulation , be not cold ; in easy talk they have to each other say : how please to exchange from day to day ! what think you , neighbor , if , to try we luck , for once we have something new , and valet truck ? this last , if make , the secret have respect ; the other have at first a good effect . for one good month the whole proceed well ; but , at the end , disgust disperse the spell ; and neighbor Stephen , as we might suppose , began dissatisfaction to disclose ; lament much Antoinetta 's stop ; no doubt he be a loser by the swop ; yet neighbor Giles express extreme regret , that t ` other from he ought to boot should get : Howe'er , he would retruck not consent , so much he otherwise appear content . it happen on a day , as Stephen stray within a wood , he see , beneath a shade , and near the stream , asleep , and quite alone , Antoinetta , whom he wish he own . he near she draw , and wake she with surprise ; the change ne'er strike she when she ope would she eye ; the gay gallant advantage quickly take , and , what he wish , soon place within he hook . ` Tis say , he find she better than at first ; why so ? you ask : be she then at the worst ? a curious question , truly , you have design ; in Cupid 's be ` rous code of law you 'll find -- Bread get by stealth , and eat where none can spy , be better far than what you bake or buy ; for proof of this , ask those most learn 'd in love truth we prefer , all other thing above ; yet Hymen , and the god of soft desire , how much soe'er they union we admire , be not design together bread to bake ; in proof , the sleep scene for instance take . good cheer be there : each dish be serve with taste ; the god of love , who often cook in haste , most nicely seasoned thing to relish well ; in this he be think old Hymen to excel . ANTOINETTA , to he clasp restore , we neighbor Stephen , who he wife adore , quite raw , howe'er , in this , exclaim apart Friend Giles have surely get some secret art , for now my rib display superior charm , to what she have , before she leave my arm . Let 's take she back , and play the Norman trick deny the whole , and by we priv ` lege stick . immediately he ev ` ry effort try , to get the bargain fully set aside . Giles , much distressed , exert all he might , to keep he prize , and prove he conduct right . the cause be carry to the bishop 's court ; much noise it make , accord to report . at length the parliament would hear the claim , and judge a case of such peculiar fame . the village lawyer , Oudinet , be bring ; from he , who draw the contract , truth be seek ; there rest the cause , for ` ti of recent date ; while undecided , more we can not state . HOW silly neighbor Stephen must appear ! he go against he int ` rest now ` tis clear ; for , when superior pleasure he be show , the fascinating fair be not he own . good sense would whisper then , ` twere full as well , to let remain with Giles the beauteous belle ; Save now and then , within the leafy shade , where oft Antoinetta visit make , and warble to the shrub and tree around ; there he might easily the nymph have find , but , if with ease it could not be obtain , still greater pleasure he would then have gain . go preach I this to silly country lout ; these , howsoe'er , have manage well they bout , it must not be deny , and all be nice ; to do the like perhaps ` twill some entice . I much regret my lot be not the same , though doubtless many will my wish blame .