the HERMIT La Fontain when Venus and Hypocrisy combine , Oft prank be play that show a deep design ; man be but man , and friar full as weak : I be not by Envy move these truth to speak . Have you a sister , daughter , pretty wife ? beware the monk as you would guard you life ; if in they snare a simple belle be catch : the trap succeed : to ruin she be bring . to show that monk be knave in Virtue 's mask ; Pray read my tale : -- no other proof I ask . a HERMIT , full of youth , be think around , a saint , and worthy of the legend find . the holy man a knotted cincture wear ; but , ` neath he garb : -- heart-rotten to the core . a chaplet from he twisted girdle hang , of size extreme , and regularly strung , on t ` other side be worn a little bell ; the hypocrite in ALL , he act well ; and if a female near he cell appear , he would keep within as if the sex he fear , with downcast eye and look of woe complete , you would ne'er suppose that butter he could eat . not far from where the hermit 's cell be place , within a village dwell a widow chaste ; she residence be at the further end and all she store -- a daughter as a friend , who candor , youth , and charm supreme possess ; and still a virgin live , howe'er distressed . though if the real truth perhaps we name , 'twa more simplicity than virtuous aim ; not much of industry , but honest heart ; no wealth , nor lover , who might hope impart . in Adam 's day , when all with clothes be bear , she doubtless might like finery have worn ; a house be furnish then without expense ; for sheet or mattress you would no pretence ; not e ` en a bed be necessary thought no blanket , pillowbier , nor quilt be buy . those time be o ` er ; then Hymen come alone ; but now a lawyer in he train be show . OUR anchorite , in beg through the place ; this girl beheld , -- but not with eye of grace . Said he , she 'll do , and , if thou manag ` st right , Lucius , at time , with she to pass the night . no time he lose , he wish to secure : the means , we may suppose , not over pure . quite near the open field they live , I have say ; a humble , boarded cottage o ` er they head . one charming night -- no , I mistake ` ti plain , we hermit , favor much by wind and rain , Pierced in the board , where by time 'twa worn ; a hole through which he introduce a horn ; and loudly bawl : -- attend to what I say , ye woman , my command at once obey . this voice spread terror through the little cot ; both hide they head and tremble for they lot ; but still we monk he horn would sound aloud awake ! cry he ; you favor God have vow ; my faithful servant , Lucius , haste to seek ; at early dawn go find this hermit meek to no one say a word : ` tis Heav ` n ordain ; fear nothing , Lucius ever bless remains ; I 'll show the way myself : you daughter place , good widow , with this holy man of grace ; and from they intercourse a pope shall spring , who back to virtue christendom will bring . he speak to they so very loud and clear , they hear , though ` neath the clothes half dead with fear . some time howe'er the female lay in dread ; at length the daughter venture out she head , and , pull hastily she parent 's arm , say she , dear mother , -lrb-B- not suspect harm -rrb-B- good Heav ` n ! must I obey and thither go ? what would the holy man on I bestow ? I know not what to say nor how to act ; now cousin Anne would with he be exact , and better recollect he sage advice : -- fool ! say the mother , never be so nice ; Go , nothing fear , and do whate'er 's desire ; much understanding will not be require ; the first or second time thou ` lt get thy cue , and cousin Anne will less know what to do . indeed ? the girl reply ; well , let 's away , and we 'll return to bed without delay . but softly , cry the mother with a smile ; not quite so fast , for Satan may beguile ; and if ` twere so , hast take proper care ? I think he speak like one who would ensnare . to be precipitate , in such a case , perhaps might lead at once to dire disgrace . if thou wert terrify and do ` st not hear , Myself I be sure be quite o ` ercome with fear . no , no , rejoin the daughter , I be right : I clearly hear , dear mother , spite of fright . well then , reply the widow , let we pray , that we by Satan be not lead astray . AT length they both arise when morning come , and through the day the converse be the same . at night howe'er the horn be hear once more , and terrify the female as before . Thou unbelieving woman , cry the voice , for certain purpose of God the choice ; no more delay , but to the hermit fly , or ` tis decree that thou shalt quickly die . now , mother , say the girl , I tell you well ; come , let we hasten to the hermit 's cell ; so much i dread you death , I 'll nothing shun ; and if ` tis requisite , I 'll even run . away then , cry the mother , let we go ; some pain to dress , the daughter would bestow , without reflect what might be she fare : -- to please be ev ` ry bloom lass 's care . OUR monk be on the watch you may suppose ; a hole he make that would a glimpse disclose ; by which , when near he cell the female draw , they might , with whip in hand the hermit view , who , like a culprit punish for he crime , receive the lash , and that so many time , it sound like the discipline of school , and make more noise than flog fifty fool . when first we pilgrim knock , he would not hear ; and , for the moment , whipping would appear ; the holy lash severely he apply , which , through the hole , with pain we female spy ; at length the door he ope 'd , but from he eye no satisfaction beam : he show surprise . with tremble knee and blush o ` er the face , the widow now explain the mystick case . six step behind , the beauteous daughter stand , and wait the decree she think so good . the hypocrite howe'er the hermit play , and send these humble pilgrim back dismayed . Said he , the evil spirit much I dread ; no female to my cell should e ` er be lead ; Excuse I then : such act would sorrow bring ; from I the HOLY FATHER ne'er spring . what ne'er from you ? the widow straight reply : and why should not the blessing , pray , be try ? no other answer howsoe'er she get ; so back they trudge once more to gain they cot . ah ! mother , say the girl , ` tis my belief , we many heavy sin have cause thus grief . when night arrive and they in sleep be lose , again the hermit 's horn the woodwork cross ; return , return , cry he with horrid tone ; To-morrow you 'll have due attention show ; I have change the hermit 's cold fastidious mind , and when you come , he 'll act as I have design . the couple leave they bed at break of day , and to the cell repair without delay we tale to shorten , Lucius kind appear to rigid rule no longer he adhere . the mother with he let she girl remain , and hasten to she humble roof again . the belle comply look : -- he take she arm , and soon familiar grow with ev ` ry charm . O HYPOCRITESS ! how oft you wily art deceive the world and cause poignant smart . AT matins they so very often meet , some awkward indication cause regret . the fair at length she apron-string perceive Grew daily shorter , which she bosom grieve ; but nothing to the hermit she would unfold , nor e ` en those feeling to she mother tell ; she dread lest she should be send away , and be deprive at once of Cupid 's play . you 'll tell I whence so much discernment come ? from this same play : -- the tree of art by name . for sev ` n long month the nymph she visit pay ; she inexperience doubtless wanted aid . BUT when the mother see she daughter 's case , she make she thank the monk , and leave the place . the hermit bless the Lord for what be do ; a pleasant course he humble slave have run . he tell the mother and she daughter fair , the child , by God 's permission , gift would share . Howe'er , be careful , say the wily wight , that with you infant ev ` ry thing go right ; to you , from thence , great happiness will spring : you 'll reign the parent of what be more than king ; you relative to noble rank will rise : some will be prince ; other lord comprise ; you nephew cardinal ; you cousin too will duke become , if they the truth pursue ; and place , castle , palace , there 'll be , for you and they of every high degree ; you 'll nothing want : eternal be the source , like water flow in the river 's course . this long prediction o ` er : with feature grave , he benediction to they both he give . when home return , the girl , each day and night , amuse she mind with prospects of delight ; by fancy 's aid she see the future pope , and all prepare to greet she fondest hope ; but what arrive the whole at once o ` erthrew hat , dukedom , castle , vanish from the view : the promised elevation of the NAME dissolve to air : - a little female come !