70 the Three SonsS of Fortune BrothersS Grimm a father once call he three son before he , and he give to the first a cock , to the second a scythe , and to the third a cat . `` I be already age , '' say he , `` my death be nigh , and I have wish to take thought for you before my end ; money I have not , and what I now give you seem of little worth , but all depend on you make a sensible use of it . only seek out a country where such thing be still unknown , and you fortune be make . '' after the father 's death the eldest go away with he cock , but wherever he come the cock be already know ; in the town he see he from a long distance , sit upon the steeple and turn round with the wind , and in the village he hear more than one crowing ; no one would show any wonder at the creature , so that it do not look as if he would make he fortune by it . at last , however , it happen that he come to a island where the people know nothing about cock , and do not even understand how to divide they time . they certainly know when it be morning or evening , but at night , if they do not sleep through it , not one of they know how to find out the time . `` look ! '' say he , `` what a proud creature ! it have a ruby-red crown upon its head , and wear spur like a knight ; it call you three time during the night , at fix hour , and when it call for the last time , the sun soon rise . but if it crow by broad daylight , then take notice , for there will certainly be a change of weather . '' the people be well pleased ; for a whole night they do not sleep , and listen with great delight as the cock at two , four , and six o'clock , loudly and clearly proclaim the time . they ask if the creature be for sale , and how much he want for it ? `` about as much gold as a ass can carry , '' answer he . `` a ridiculously small price for such a precious creature ! '' they cry unanimously , and willingly give he what he have ask . when he come home with he wealth he brother be astonish , and the second say , `` well , I will go forth and see whether I can not get rid of my scythe as profitably . '' but it do not look as if he would , for labourer meet he everywhere , and they have scythe upon they shoulder as well as he . at last , however , he chance upon a island where the people know nothing of scythe . when the corn be ripe there , they take cannon out to the field and shoot it down . now this be rather a uncertain affair ; many shot right over it , other hit the ear instead of the stem , and shoot they away , whereby much be lose , and besides all this , it make a terrible noise . so the man set to work and mow it down so quietly and quickly that the people open they mouth with astonishment . they agree to give he what he want for the scythe , and he receive a horse laden with as much gold as it could carry . and now the third brother want to take he cat to the right man . he fare just like the other ; so long as he stay on the mainland there be nothing to be do . every place have cat , and there be so many of they that new-born kitten be generally drown in the pond . at last he sail over to a island , and it luckily happen that no cat have ever yet be see there , and that the mouse have get the upper hand so much that they dance upon the table and bench whether the master be at home or not . the people complain bitterly of the plague ; the King himself in he palace do not know how to secure himself against they ; mouse squeak in every corner , and gnaw whatever they could lay hold of with they tooth . but now the cat begin she chase , and soon clear a couple of room , and the people beg the King to buy the wonderful beast for the country . the King willingly give what be ask , which be a mule laden with gold , and the third brother come home with the greatest treasure of all . the cat make herself merry with the mouse in the royal palace , and kill so many that they could not be count . at last she grow warm with the work and thirsty , so she stand still , lift up she head and cry , `` Mew . Mew ! '' when they hear this strange cry , the King and all he people be frighten , and in they terror run all at once out of the palace . then the King take counsel what be best to be do ; at last it be determine to send a herald to the cat , and demand that she should leave the palace , or if not , she be to expect that force would be use against she . the councillor say , `` rather will we let ourselves be plague with the mouse , for to that misfortune we be accustom , than give up we life to such a monster as this . '' a noble youth , therefore , be send to ask the cat `` whether she would peaceably quit the castle ? '' but the cat , whose thirst have become still greater , merely answer , `` Mew ! Mew ! '' the youth understand she to say , `` most certainly not ! most certainly not ! '' and take this answer to the King . `` then , '' say the councillor , `` she shall yield to force . '' Cannon be bring out , and the palace be soon in flame . when the fire reach the room where the cat be sit , she spring safely out of the window ; but the besieger do not leave off until the whole palace be shoot down to the ground .