the SEVENTH AND LAST VOYAGE of SINBAD the SAILOR . Arabian Writer be return from my sixth voyage , I absolutely lay aside all thought of travel any farther ; for , besides that my year now require rest , I be resolve no more to expose myself to such risk as I have run ; so that I think of nothing but to pass the rest of my day in quiet . one day , as I be treat some of my friend , one of my servant come and tell I that a officer of the caliph ask for I . I rise from the table , and go to he . ` the caliph , ' say he , ` have send I to tell you that he must speak with you . ' I follow the officer to the palace , where , be present to the caliph , I salute he by prostrate myself at he foot . ` Sinbad , ' say he to I , ` I stand in need of you ; you must do I the service to carry my answer and present to the King of Serendib . it be but just I should return he civility . ' this command of the caliph to I be like a clap of thunder . ` Commander of the Faithful , ' reply I , ` I be ready to do whatever you majesty shall think fit to command I ; but I beseech you most humbly to consider what I have undergo . I have also make a vow never to go out of Bagdad . ' here I take occasion to give he a large and particular account of all my adventure , which he have the patience to hear out . as soon as I have finish , ` I confess , ' say he , ` that the thing you tell I be very extraordinary , yet you must for my sake undertake this voyage which I propose to you . you have nothing to do but to go to the Isle of Serendib , and deliver the commission which I give you . after that you be at liberty to return . but you must go ; for you know it would be indecent , and not suitable to my dignity , to be indebted to the king of that island . ' perceive that the caliph insist upon it , I submit , and tell he that I be willing to obey . he be very well please at it , and order I a thousand sequin for the expense of my journey . I prepare for my departure in a few day , and as soon as the caliph 's letter and present be deliver to I , I go to Balsora , where I embark , and have a very happy voyage . I arrive at the Isle of Serendib , where I acquaint the king 's minister with my commission , and pray they to get I speedy audience . they do so , and I be conduct to the palace in a honorable manner , where I salute the king by prostration , accord to custom . that prince know I immediately , and testify very great joy to see I . ` O Sinbad , ' say he , ` you be welcome ; I swear to you I have many time thought of you since you go hence ; I bless the day upon which we see one another once more . ' I make my compliment to he , and after have thank he for he kindness to I , I deliver the caliph 's letter and present , which he receive with all imaginable satisfaction . the caliph 's present be a complete set of cloth of gold , value at one thousand sequin ; fifty robe of rich stuff , a hundred other of white cloth , the finest of Cairo , Suez , Cusa , and Alexandria ; a royal crimson bed , and a second of another fashion ; a vessel of agate broader than deep , a inch thick , and half a foot wide , the bottom of which represent in bas-relief a man with one knee on the ground , who hold a bow and a arrow , ready to let fly at a lion . he send he also a rich table , which , accord to tradition , belong to the great Solomon . the caliph 's letter be as follow : ` greet in the name of the Sovereign Guide of the Right Way , to the potent and happy Sultan , from Abdallah Haroun Alraschid , whom God hath set in the place of honor , after he ancestor of happy memory : ` we receive you letter with joy , and send you this from the council of we port , the garden of superior wit . we hope , when you look upon it , you will find we good intention , and be please with it . Farewell . ' the King of Serendib be highly please that the caliph return he friendship . a little time after this audience , I solicit leave to depart , and have much difficulty to obtain it . I obtain it , however , at last , and the king , when he dismiss I , make I a very considerable present . I embark immediately to return to Bagdad , but have not the good fortune to arrive there as I hope . God order it otherwise . three or four day after my departure , we be attack by pirate , who easily seize upon we ship . some of the crew offer resistance , which cost they they life . but as for I and the rest , who be not so imprudent , the pirate save we on purpose to make slave of we . we be all strip , and instead of we own clothes they give we sorry rag , and carry we into a remote island , where they sell we . I fall into the hand of a rich merchant , who , as soon as he buy I , carry I to he house , treat I well , and clothe I handsomely for a slave . some day after , not know who I be , he ask I if I understand any trade . I answer that I be no mechanic , but a merchant , and that the pirate who sell I have rob I of all I have . ` but tell I , ' reply he , ` can you shoot with a bow ? ' I answer that the bow be one of my exercise in my youth , and I have not yet forget it . then he give I a bow and arrow , and , take I behind he upon a elephant , carry I to a vast forest some league from the town . we go a great way into the forest , and where he think fit to stop he bid I alight ; then show I a great tree , ` climb up that tree , ' say he , ` and shoot at the elephant as you see they pass by , for there be a prodigious number of they in this forest , and , if any of they fall , come and give I notice of it . ' have speak thus , he leave I victuals , and return to the town , and I continue upon the tree all night . I see no elephant during that time , but next morning , as soon as the sun be up , I see a great number : I shoot several arrow among they , and at last one of the elephant fall ; the rest retire immediately , and leave I at liberty to go and acquaint my patron with my booty . when I have tell he the news , he give I a good meal , commend my dexterity , and caress I highly . we afterwards go together to the forest , where we dig a hole for the elephant ; my patron intend to return when it be rotten , and to take the tooth , etc. , to trade with . I continue this game for two month , and kill a elephant every day , get sometimes upon one tree , and sometimes upon another . one morning , as I look for the elephant , I perceive with a extreme amazement that , instead of passing by I across the forest as usual , they stop , and come to I with a horrible noise , in such a number that the earth be cover with they , and shake under they . they encompass the tree where I be with they trunk extend and they eye all fix upon I . at this frightful spectacle I remain immoveable , and be so much frighten that my bow and arrow fall out of my hand . my fear be not in vain ; for after the elephant have stare upon I for some time , one of the largest of they put he trunk round the root of the tree , and pull so strong that he pluck it up and throw it on the ground ; I fall with the tree , and the elephant take I up with he trunk , lay I on he back , where I sit more like one dead than alive , with my quiver on my shoulder : then he put himself at the head of the rest , who follow he in troops , and carry I to a place where he lay I down on the ground , and retire with all he companion . Conceive , if you can , the condition I be in : I think myself to be in a dream ; at last , after have lain some time , and see the elephant go , I get up , and find I be upon a long and broad hill , cover all over with the bone and tooth of elephant . I confess to you that this furnish I with abundance of reflection . I admire the instinct of those animal ; I doubt not but that this be they bury place , and that they carry I thither on purpose to tell I that I should forbear to persecute they , since I do it only for they tooth . I do not stay on the hill , but turn towards the city , and , after have travel a day and a night , I come to my patron ; I meet no elephant on my way , which make I think they have retire farther into the forest , to leave I at liberty to come back to the hill without any hindrance . as soon as my patron see I : ` ah , poor Sinbad , ' say he , I be in great trouble to know what have become of you . I have be at the forest , where I find a tree newly pull up , and a bow and arrow on the ground , and after have seek for you in vain I despair of ever see you more . pray tell I what befall you , and by what good hap you be still alive . ' I satisfy he curiosity , and go both of we next morning to the hill , he find to he great joy that what I have tell he be true . we load the elephant upon which we come with as many tooth as he could carry ; and when we have return , ` brother , ' say my patron -- ` for I will treat you no more as my slave -- after have make such a discovery as will enrich I , God bless you with all happiness and prosperity . I declare before he that I give you you liberty . I conceal from you what I be now go to tell you . ` the elephant of we forest have every year kill a great many slave , whom we send to seek ivory . notwithstanding all the caution we could give they , those crafty animal kill they one time or other . God have deliver you from they fury , and have bestow that favor upon you only . it be a sign that he love you , and have use for you service in the world . you have procure I incredible gain . we could not have ivory formerly but by expose the life of we slave , and now we whole city be enrich by you means . do not think I pretend to have reward you by give you you liberty ; I will also give you considerable riches . I could engage all we city to contribute towards make you fortune , but I will have the glory of do it myself . ' to this obliging discourse I reply , ` patron , God preserve you . you give I my liberty be enough to discharge what you owe I , and I desire no other reward for the service I have the good fortune to do to you and you city , than leave to return to my own country . ' ` very well , ' say he , ` the monsoon will in a little time bring ship for ivory . I will send you home then , and give you wherewith to pay you expense . ' I thank he again for my liberty , and he good intention towards I . I stay with he until the monsoon ; and during that time we make so many journey to the hill that we fill all we warehouse with ivory . the other merchant who trade in it do the same thing , for it could not be long conceal from they . the ship arrive at last , and my patron himself have make choice of the ship wherein I be to embark , he load half of it with ivory on my account , lay in provision in abundance for my passage , and oblige I besides to accept as a present , curiosity of the country of great value . after I have return he a thousand thanks for all he favor , I go on board . we set sail , and as the adventure which procure I this liberty be very extraordinary , I have it continually in my thought . we stop at some island to take in fresh provision . we vessel be come to a port on the main land in the Indies , we touch there , and not be willing to venture by sea to Balsora , I land my proportion of the ivory , resolve to proceed on my journey by land . I make vast sum by my ivory , I buy several rarity , which I intend for present , and when my equipage be ready , I set out in the company of a large caravan of merchant . I be a long time on the way , and suffer very much , but endure all with patience , when I consider that I have nothing to fear from the sea , from pirate , from serpent , nor from the other peril I have undergo . all these fatigue end at last , and I come safe to Bagdad . I go immediately to wait upon the caliph , and give he a account of my embassy . that prince tell I he have be uneasy , by reason that I be so long in return , but that he always hope God would preserve I . when I tell he the adventure of the elephant , he seem to be much surprise at it , and would never have give any credit to it have he not know my sincerity . he reckon this story , and the other narrative I have give he , to be so curious that he order one of he secretary to write they in character of gold , and lay they up in he treasury . I retire very well satisfy with the honor I receive and the present which he give I ; and after that I give myself up wholly to my , family , kindr and friend .