the butterfly . H. C. Andersen the Butterfly wish for a bride ; and , as may be imagine , he want to select a very pretty one from among the flower ; therefore he throw a critical glance at all the flower-beds , and find that every flower sit quietly and demurely on she stalk , just as a maiden ought to sit , before she be engage ; but there be a great many of they , and the choice threaten to become wearisome . the Butterfly do not care to take much trouble , and consequently he fly off on a visit to the daisy . the french call this floweret `` Marguerite , '' and they know that Marguerite can prophecy , when lover pluck off its leaf , and ask of every leaf they pluck some question concern they lover . `` heartily ? painfully ? love I much ? a little ? not at all ? '' and so on . every one ask in he own language . the Butterfly come to Marguerite too , to inquire ; but he do not pluck off she leaf : he kiss each of they , for he consider that most be to be do with kindness . `` Darling Marguerite daisy ! '' he say to she , `` you be the wisest woman among the flower . Pray , pray tell I , shall I get this one or that ? which will be my bride ? when I know that , I will directly fly to she , and propose for she . '' but Marguerite do not answer he . she be angry that he have call she a `` woman , '' when she be yet a girl ; and there be a great difference . he ask for the second and for the third time , and when she remain dumb , and answer he not a word , he would wait no longer , but fly away to begin he woo at once . it be in the beginning of spring ; the crocus and the snowdrop be bloom around . `` they be very pretty , '' think the Butterfly . `` charming little lass , but a little too much of the schoolgirl about they . '' like all young lad , he look out for the elder girl . then he fly of to the anemone . these be a little too bitter for he taste ; the violet somewhat too sentimental ; the lime blossom be too small , and , moreover , they have too many relation ; the apple blossom -- they look like rose , but they bloom to-day , to fall off to-morrow , to fall beneath the first wind that blow ; and he think that a marriage with they would last too short a time . the pea blossom please he best of all : she be white and red , and graceful and delicate , and belong to the domestic maiden who look well , and at the same time be useful in the kitchen . he be just about to make he offer , when close by the maiden he see a pod at whose end hang a withered flower . `` who be that ? '' he ask . `` that be my sister , '' reply the Pease Blossom . `` oh , indeed ; and you will get to look like she ! '' he say . and away he fly , for he feel quite shocked . the honeysuckle hang forth bloom from the hedge , but there be a number of girl like that , with long face and sallow complexion . no , he do not like she . but which one do he like ? the spring go by , and the summer draw towards its close ; it be autumn , but he be still undecided . and now the flower appear in they most gorgeous robe , but in vain ; they have not the fresh fragrant air of youth . but the heart demand fragrance , even when it be no longer young , and there be very little of that to be find among the dahlia and dry chrysanthemum , therefore the Butterfly turn to the mint on the ground . you see this plant have no blossom ; but indeed it be blossom all over , full of fragrance from head to foot , with flower scent in every leaf . `` I shall take she , '' say the Butterfly . and he make a offer for she . but the mint stand silent and stiff , listen to he . at last she say , `` friendship , if you please ; but nothing more . I be old , and you be old , but we may very well live for one another ; but as to marry -- no -- do not let we appear ridiculous at we age . '' and thus it happen that the Butterfly have no wife at all . he have be too long choosing , and that be a bad plan . so the Butterfly become what we call a old bachelor . it be late in autumn , with rain and cloudy weather . the wind blow cold over the back of the old willow tree , so that they creak again . it be no weather to be fly about in summer clothes , nor , indeed , be the Butterfly in the open air . he have get under shelter by chance , where there be fire in the stove and the heat of summer . he could live well enough , but he say , `` it be not enough merely to live . one must have freedom , sunshine , and a little flower . '' and he fly against the window-frame , and be see and admire , and then stick upon a pin and place in the box of curiosity ; they could not do more for he . `` now I be perch on a stalk , like the flower , '' say the Butterfly . `` it certainly be not very pleasant . it must be something like be marry , for one be stick fast . '' and he console himself in some measure with the thought . `` that be very poor comfort , '' say the potted plant in the room . `` but , '' think the Butterfly , `` one can not well trust these potted plant . they have have too much to do with mankind . ''