102 the Willow-Wren and the Bear BrothersS Grimm once in summer-time the bear and the wolf be walk in the forest , and the bear hear a bird sing so beautifully that he say , `` Brother wolf , what bird be it that sing so well ? '' `` that be the king of bird , '' say the wolf , `` before whom we must bow down . '' it be , however , in reality the willow-wren -lrb-B- Zaunk nig -rrb-B- . `` if that be the case , '' say the bear , `` I should very much like to see he royal palace ; come , take I thither . '' `` that be not do quite as you seem to think , '' say the wolf ; `` you must wait until the Queen come . '' soon afterwards , the Queen arrive with some food in she beak , and the lord king come too , and they begin to feed they young one . the bear would have like to go at once , but the wolf hold he back by the sleeve , and say , `` no , you must wait until the lord and lady Queen have go away again . '' so they observe the hole in which be the nest , and trot away . the bear , however , could not rest until he have see the royal palace , and when a short time have pass , again go to it . the King and Queen have just fly out , so he peep in and see five or six young one lie in it . `` be that the royal palace ? '' cry the bear ; `` it be a wretched palace , and you be not King 's child , you be disreputable child ! '' when the young wren hear that , they be frightfully angry , and scream , `` no , that we be not ! we parent be honest people ! Bear , thou wilt have to pay for that ! '' the bear and the wolf grow uneasy , and turn back and go into they hole . the young willow-wrens , however , continue to cry and scream , and when they parent again bring food they say , `` we will not so much as touch one fly 's leg , no , not if we be die of hunger , until you have settle whether we be respectable child or not ; the bear have be here and have insult we ! '' then the old King say , `` be easy , he shall be punish , '' and he at once fly with the Queen to the bear 's cave , and call in , `` Old Growler , why hast thou insult my child ? Thou shalt suffer for it we will punish thee by a bloody war . '' thus war be announce to the Bear , and all four-footed animal be summon to take part in it , ox , ass , cow , deer , and every other animal the earth contain . and the willow-wren summon everything which fly in the air , not only bird , large and small , but midge , and hornet , bee and fly have to come . when the time come for the war to begin , the willow-wren send out spy to discover who be the enemy 's commander-in-chief . the gnat , who be the most crafty , fly into the forest where the enemy be assemble , and hide herself beneath a leaf of the tree where the watchword be to be give . there stand the bear , and he call the fox before he and say , `` Fox , thou art the most cunning of all animal , thou shalt be general and lead we . '' `` good , '' say the fox , `` but what signal shall we agree upon ? '' no one know that , so the fox say , `` I have a fine long bushy tail , which almost look like a plume of red feather . when I lift my tail up quite high , all be go well , and you must charge ; but if I let it hang down , run away as fast as you can . '' when the gnat have hear that , she fly away again , and reveal everything , with the greatest minuteness , to the willow-wren . when day break , and the battle be to begin , all the four-footed animal come run up with such a noise that the earth tremble . the willow-wren also come fly through the air with he army with such a humming , and whir , and swarm that every one be uneasy and afraid , and on both side they advance against each other . but the willow-wren send down the hornet , with order to get beneath the fox 's tail , and sting with all he might . when the fox feel the first sting , he start so that he draw up one leg , with the pain , but he bear it , and still keep he tail high in the air ; at the second sting , he be force to put it down for a moment ; at the third , he could hold out no longer , and scream out and put he tail between he leg . when the animal see that , they think all be lose , and begin to fly , each into he hole and the bird have win the battle . then the King and Queen fly home to they child and cry , `` Children , rejoice , eat and drink to you heart 's content , we have win the battle ! '' but the young wren say , `` we will not eat yet , the bear must come to the nest , and beg for pardon and say that we be honorable child , before we will do that . '' then the willow-wren fly to the bear 's hole and cry , `` Growler , thou art to come to the nest to my child , and beg they pardon , or else every rib of thy body shall be break . '' so the bear creep thither in the greatest fear , and beg they pardon . and now at last the young wren be satisfy , and sit down together and eat and drank , and make merry till quite late into the night .