39 the Elves BrothersS Grimm FIRST STORY A shoemaker , by no fault of he own , have become so poor that at last he have nothing left but leather for one pair of shoe . so in the evening , he cut out the shoe which he wish to begin to make the next morning , and as he have a good conscience , he lay down quietly in he bed , commend himself to God , and fall asleep . in the morning , after he have say he prayer , and be just go to sit down to work , the two shoe stand quite finish on he table . he be astounded , and know not what to say to it . he take the shoe in he hand to observe they closer , and they be so neatly make that there be not one bad stitch in they , just as if they be intend as a masterpiece . soon after , a buyer come in , and as the shoe please he so well , he pay more for they than be customary , and , with the money , the shoemaker be able to purchase leather for two pair of shoe . he cut they out at night , and next morning be about to set to work with fresh courage ; but he have no need to do so , for , when he get up , they be already make , and buyer also be not want , who give he money enough to buy leather for four pair of shoe . the following morning , too , he find the four pair make ; and so it go on constantly , what he cut out in the evening be finish by the morning , so that he soon have he honest independence again , and at last become a wealthy man . now it befall that one evening not long before Christmas , when the man have be cut out , he say to he wife , before go to bed , `` what think you if we be to stay up to-night to see who it be that lend we this help hand ? '' the woman like the idea , and light a candle , and then they hide themselves in a corner of the room , behind some clothes which be hang up there , and watch . when it be midnight , two pretty little naked man come , sit down by the shoemaker 's table , take all the work which be cut out before they and begin to stitch , and sew , and hammer so skilfully and so quickly with they little finger that the shoemaker could not turn away he eye for astonishment . they do not stop until all be do , and stand finish on the table , and they run quickly away . next morning the woman say , `` the little man have make we rich , and we really must show that we be grateful for it . they run about so , and have nothing on , and must be cold . I 'll tell thee what I 'll do : I will make they little shirt , and coat , and vest , and trousers , and knit both of they a pair of stocking , and do thou , too , make they two little pair of shoe . '' the man say , `` I shall be very glad to do it ; '' and one night , when everything be ready , they lay they present all together on the table instead of the cut-out work , and then conceal themselves to see how the little man would behave . at midnight they come bound in , and want to get to work at once , but as they do not find any leather cut out , but only the pretty little article of clothing , they be at first astonished , and then they show intense delight . they dress themselves with the greatest rapidity , put the pretty clothes on , and singing , `` now we be boy so fine to see , why should we longer cobbler be ? '' then they dance and skip and leap over chair and bench . at last they dance out of door . from that time forth they come no more , but as long as the shoemaker live all go well with he , and all he undertaking prosper . second story there be once a poor servant-girl , who be industrious and cleanly , and sweep the house every day , and empty she sweepings on the great heap in front of the door . one morning when she be just go back to she work , she find a letter on this heap , and as she could not read , she put she broom in the corner , and take the letter to she master and mistress , and behold it be a invitation from the elf , who ask the girl to hold a child for they at its christening . the girl do not know what to do , but at length , after much persuasion , and as they tell she that it be not right to refuse a invitation of this kind , she consent . then three elf come and conduct she to a hollow mountain , where the little folk live . everything there be small , but more elegant and beautiful than can be describe . the baby 's mother lay in a bed of black ebony ornament with pearl , the coverlid be embroider with gold , the cradle be of ivory , the bath of gold . the girl stand as godmother , and then want to go home again , but the little elf urgently entreat she to stay three day with they . so she stay , and pass the time in pleasure and gaiety , and the little folk do all they could to make she happy . at last she set out on she way home . then first they fill she pocket quite full of money , and after that they lead she out of the mountain again . when she get home , she want to begin she work , and take the broom , which be still stand in the corner , in she hand and begin to sweep . then some stranger come out of the house , who ask she who she be , and what business she have there ? and she have not , as she think , be three day with the little man in the mountain , but seven year , and in the meantime she former master have die . third story a certain mother 's child have be take away out of its cradle by the elf , and a changeling with a large head and stare eye , which would do nothing but eat and drink , lay in its place . in she trouble she go to she neighbor , and ask she advice . the neighbor say that she be to carry the changele into the kitchen , set it down on the hearth , light a fire , and boil some water in two egg-shells , which would make the changeling laugh , and if he laugh , all would be over with he . the woman do everything that she neighbor bid she . when she put the egg-shells with water on the fire , the imp say , `` I be as old now as the Wester forest , but never yet have I see any one boil anything in a egg-shell ! '' and he begin to laugh at it . Whilst he be laugh , suddenly come a host of little elf , who bring the right child , set it down on the hearth , and take the changele away with they .