the PRINCE and the FAKIR Indian Writer there be once upon a time a king who have no child . now this king go and lay he down to rest at a place where four road meet , so that every one who pass have to step over he . at last a Fakir come along , and he say to the King , `` man , why be you lie here ? '' he reply , `` Fakir , a thousand man have come and pass by ; you pass on too . '' but the Fakir say , `` who be you , man ? '' the King reply , `` I be a King , Fakir . of goods and gold I have no lack , but I have live long and have no child . so I have come here , and have lay I down at the cross-roads . my sin and offence have be very many , so I have come and be lie here that man may pass over I , and perchance my sin may be forgive I , and God may be merciful , and I may have a son . '' the Fakir answer he , `` oh King ! if you have child , what will you give I ? '' `` whatever you ask , Fakir , '' answer the King . the Fakir say , `` of goods and gold I have no lack , but I will say a prayer for you , and you will have two son ; one of those son will be mine . '' then he take out two sweetmeat and hand they to the King , and say , `` King ! take these two sweetmeat and give they to you wife ; give they to the wife you love best . '' the King take the sweetmeat and put they in he bosom . then the Fakir say , `` King ! in a year I will return , and of the two son who will be bear to you one be mine and one yours . '' the King say , `` well , I agree . '' then the Fakir go on he way , and the King come home and give one sweetmeat to each of he two wife . after some time two son be bear to the King . then what do the King do but place those two son in a underground room , which he have build in the earth . some time pass , and one day the Fakir appear , and say , `` King ! bring I that son of yours ! '' what do the King do but bring two slave-girls ' son and present they to the Fakir . while the Fakir be sit there the King 's son be sit down below in they cellar eat they food . just then a hungry ant have carry away a grain of rice from they food , and be go along with it to she child . another stronger ant come up and attack she in order to get this grain of rice . the first ant say , `` O ant , why do you drag this away from I ? I have long be lame in my foot , and I have get just one grain , and be carry it to my child . the King 's son be sit in the cellar eat they food ; you go and fetch a grain from there ; why should you take mine from I ? '' on this the second ant let go and do not rob the first , but go off to where the King 's son be eat they food . on hearing this the Fakir say , `` King ! these be not you son ; go and bring those child who be eat they food in the cellar . '' then the King go and bring he own son . the Fakir choose the eldest son and take he away , and set off with he on he journey , when he get home he tell the King 's son to go out to gather fuel . so the King 's son go out to gather cow-dung , and when he have collect some he bring it in . then the Fakir look at the King 's son and put on a great pot , and say , `` come round here , my pupil . '' but the King 's son say , `` Master first , and pupil after . '' the Fakir tell he to come once , he tell he twice , he tell he three time , and each time the King 's son answer , `` Master first , and pupil after . '' then the Fakir make a dash at the King 's son , think to catch he and throw he into the caldron . there be about a hundred gallon of oil in this caldron , and the fire be burn beneath it . then the King 's son , lift the Fakir , give he a jerk and throw he into the caldron , and he be burnt , and become roast meat . he then see a key of the Fakir 's lie there ; he take this key and open the door of the Fakir 's house . now many man be lock up in this house ; two horse be stand there in a hut of the Fakir 's ; two greyhound be tie up there ; two simurg be imprison , and two tiger also stand there . so the King 's son let all the creature go , and take they out of the house , and they all return thanks to God . next he let out all the man who be in prison . he take away with he the two horse , and he take away the two tiger , and he take away the two hound , and he take away the two simurg , and with they he set out for another country . as he go along the road he see above he a bald man , grazing a herd of calf , and this bald man call out to he , `` Fellow ! can you fight at all ? '' the King 's son reply , `` when I be little I could fight a bit , and now , if any one want to fight , I be not so unmanly as to turn my back . come , I will fight you . '' the bald man say , `` if I throw you , you shall be my slave ; and if you throw I , I will be you slave . '' so they get ready and begin to fight , and the King 's son throw he . on this the King 's son say , `` I will leave my beast here , my simurg , tiger , and dog , and horse ; they will all stay here while I go to the city to see the sight . I appoint the tiger as guard over my property . and you be my slave , you , too , must stay here with my belongings . '' so the King 's son start off to the city to see the sight , and arrive at a pool . he see that it be a pleasant pool , and think he would stop and bathe there , and therewith he begin to strip off he clothes . now the King 's daughter , who be sit on the roof of the palace , see he royal mark , and she say , `` this man be a king ; when I marry , I will marry he and no other . '' so she say to she father , `` my father ; I wish to marry . '' `` good , '' say she father . then the King make a proclamation : `` let all man , great and small , attend to-day in the hall of audience , for the King 's daughter will to - day take a husband . '' all the man of the land assemble , and the traveller Prince also come , dress in the Fakir 's clothes , say to himself , `` I must see this ceremony to-day . '' he go in and sit down . the King 's daughter come out and sit in the balcony , and cast she glance round all the assembly . she notice that the traveller Prince be sit in the assembly in Fakir 's attire . the Princess say to she handmaiden , `` take this dish of henna , go to that traveller dress like a Fakir , and sprinkle scent on he from the dish . '' the handmaiden obey the Princess 's order , go to he , and sprinkle the scent over he . then the people say , `` the slave-girl have make a mistake . '' but she reply , `` the slave-girl have make no mistake , ` tis she mistress have make the mistake . '' on this the King marry he daughter to the Fakir , who be really no Fakir , but a Prince . what fate have decree come to pass in that country , and they be marry . but the King of that city become very sad in he heart , because when so many chief and noble be sit there he daughter have choose none of they , but have choose that Fakir ; but he keep these thought conceal in he heart . one day the traveller Prince say , `` let all the King 's son-in-law come out with I to-day to hunt . '' people say , `` what be this fakir that he should go a-hunting ? '' however , they all set out for the hunt , and fix they meeting-place at a certain pool . the newly marry Prince go to he tiger , and tell he tiger and hound to kill and bring in a great number of gazelle and hog-deer and markhor . instantly they kill and bring in a great number . then take with he these spoil of the chase , the Prince come to the pool settle on as a meeting-place . the other Princes , son-in-law of the King of that city , also assemble there ; but they have bring in no game , and the new Prince have bring a great deal . thence they return home to the town , and go to the King they father-in-law , to present they game . now that King have no son . then the new Prince tell he that in fact he , too , be a Prince . at this the King , he father-in-law , be greatly delighted and take he by the hand and embrace he . he seat he by himself , say , `` O Prince , I return thanks that you have come here and become my son-in-law ; I be very happy at this , and I make over my kingdom to you . ''