the bond of FRIENDSHIP . H. C. Andersen Our rude house be put together of clay ; but the door-posts be column of fluted marble find near the spot where the house be erect . the roof reach almost down to the ground . it be now dark brown and ugly , but it have originally consist of bloom olive and fresh laurel branch bring from beyond the mountain . around we dwelling be a narrow gorge , whose wall of rock rise steeply upwards , and show naked and black , and round they summit often hung cloud , like white living figure . never do I hear a singing bird there , never do the man there dance to the sound of the bagpipe ; but the spot be sacred from the old time : even its name remind of this , for it be call Delphi ! the dark solemn mountain be all cover with snow ; the highest , which gleam the longest in the red light of evening , be Parnassus ; the brook which roll from it near we house be once sacred also . now the ass sully it with its foot , but the stream roll on and on , and become clear again . how I can remember every spot in the deep holy solitude ! in the midst of the hut a fire be kindle , and when the hot ash lay there red and glowing , the bread be baked in they . when the snow be pile so high around we hut as almost to hide it , my mother appear most cheerful : then she would hold my head between she hand , and sing the song she never sing at other time , for the TurksS we master would not allow it . she sing : `` on the summit of Olympus , in the forest of dwarf fir , lay a old stag . he eye be heavy with tear ; he weep blue and even red tear ; and there come a roebuck by , and say , ` what ail thee , that thou weepest those blue and red tear ? ' and the stag answer , ` the Turk have come to we city : he have wild dog for the chase , a goodly pack . ' ` I will drive they away across the island , ' cry the young roebuck , ` I will drive they away across the island into the deep sea ! ' but before evening sink down the roebuck be slay , and before night the stag be hunt and dead . '' and when my mother sing thus , she eye become moist , and on the long eyelash hang a tear ; but she hide it , and baked we black bread in the ash . then I would clench my fist and cry , `` we will kill the TurksS ! '' but she repeat from the song the word , `` I will drive they across the island into the deep sea . but before evening sink down the roebuck be slay , and before the night come the stag be hunt and dead . '' for several day and night we have be lonely in we hut , when my father come home . I know he would bring I shell from the Gulf of Lepanto , or perhaps even a bright gleaming knife . this time he bring we a child , a little half-naked girl , that he bring under he sheepskin cloak . it be wrap in a fur , and all that the little creature possess when this be take off , and she lay in my mother 's lap , be three silver coin , fasten in she dark hair . my father tell we that the TurksS have kill the child 's parent ; and he tell so much about they , that I dream of the TurksS all night . he himself have be wound , and my mother bind up he arm . the wound be deep , and the thick sheepskin be stiff with frozen blood . the little maiden be to be my sister . how radiantly beautiful she look ! even my mother 's eye be not more gentle than hers . Anastasia , as she be call , be to be my sister , because she father have be unite to mine by the old custom which we still keep . they have swear brotherhood in they youth , and choose the most beautiful and virtuous girl in the neighborhood to consecrate they bond of friendship . I often hear of the strange good custom . so now the little girl be my sister . she sit in my lap , and I bring she flower and the feather of the mountain bird : we drink together of the water of Parnassus , and dwelt together for many a year under the laurel roof of the hut , while my mother sing winter after winter of the stag who weep red tear . but as yet I do not understand that it be my own countryman whose many sorrow be mirror in those tear . one day there come three frankish man . they dress be different from ours . they have tent and bed with they on they horse , and more than twenty TurksS , all arm with sword and musket , accompany they ; for they be friend of the pacha , and have letter from he command a escort for they . they only come to see we mountain , to ascend Parnassus amid the snow and the cloud , and to look at the strange black steep rock near we hut . they could not find room in it , nor could they endure the smoke that roll along the ceiling and find its way out at the low door ; therefore they pitch they tent on the small space outside we dwelling , roasted lamb and bird , and pour out strong sweet wine , of which the TurksS be not allow to partake . when they depart , I accompany they for some distance , carry my little sister Anastasia , wrap in a goatskin , on my back . one of the frankish gentleman make I stand in front of a rock , and draw I , and she too , as we stand there , so that we look like one creature . I never think of it ; but Anastasia and I be really one . she be always sit in my lap or ride in the goatskin at my back ; and when I dream , she appear in my dream . two night afterwards , other man , arm with knife and musket , come into we tent . they be albanian , brave man , my mother tell I . they only stay a short time . my sister Anastasia sit on the knee of one of they , and when they be go she have not three , but only two silver coin in she hair . they wrap tobacco in strip of paper and smoke it . I remember they be undecided as to the road they be to take . but they have to make a choice . they go , and my father go with they . soon afterwards we hear the sound of firing . the noise be renew , and soldier rush into we hut , and take my mother , and myself , and my sister Anastasia prisoner . they declare that the robber have be entertain by we , and that my father have act as the robber ' guide , and therefore we must go with they . presently I see the corpse of the robber bring in ; I see my father 's corpse too . I cry and cry till I fall asleep . when I awake , we be in prison , but the room be not worse than ours in we own house . they give I onion to eat , and musty wine pour from a tarry cask , but we have no better fare at home . how long we be keep prisoner I do not know ; but many day and night go by . when we be set free it be the time of the holy Easter feast . I carry Anastasia on my back , for my mother be ill , and could only move slowly , and it be a long way till we come down to the sea , to the Gulf of Lepanto . we go into a church that gleam with picture paint on a golden ground . they be picture of angel , and very beautiful ; but it seem to I that we little Anastasia be just as beautiful . in the middle of the floor stand a coffin fill with rose . `` the Lord Christ be picture there in the form of a beautiful rose , '' say my mother ; and the priest announce , `` Christ be rise ! '' all the people kiss each other : each one have a burning taper in he hand , and I receive one myself , and so do little Anastasia . the bagpipe sound , man dance hand in hand from the church , and outside the woman be roast the Easter lamb . we be invite to partake , and I sit by the fire ; a boy , older than myself , put he arm round my neck , kiss I , and say , `` Christ be rise ! '' and thus it be that for the first time I meet Aphtanides . my mother could make fisherman 's net , for which there be a good demand here in the bay , and we live a long time by the side of the sea , the beautiful sea , that taste like tear , and in its color remind I of the song of the stag that weep -- for sometimes its water be red , and sometimes green or blue . aphtanide know how to manage we boat , and I often sit in it , with my little Anastasia , while it glide on through the water , swift as a bird fly through the air . then , when the sun sink down , the mountain be tint with a deeper and deeper blue , one range seem to rise behind the other , and behind they all stand Parnassus with its snow-crowned summit . the mountain-top gleam in the evening ray like glowing iron , and it seem as though the light come from within it ; for long after the sun have set , the mountain still shine through the clear blue air . the white water bird touch the surface of the sea with they wing , and all here be as calm and quiet as among the black rock at Delphi . I lay on my back in the boat , Anastasia lean against I , and the star above we shine brighter than the lamp in we church . they be the same star , and they stand exactly in the same position above I , as when I have sit in front of we hut at Delphi ; and at last I almost fancy I be there . suddenly there be a splash in the water , and the boat rock violently . I cry out in horror , for Anastasia have fall into the water : but in a moment Aphtanides have spring in after she , and be hold she up to I ! we dry she clothes as well as we could , remain on the water till they be dry ; for no one be to know what a fright we have have for we little adopt sister , in whose life aphtanide now have a part . the summer come . the sun burn so hot that the leaf turn yellow on the tree . I think of we cool mountain , and of the fresh water they contain ; my mother , too , long for they ; and one evening we wander home . what peace , what silence ! we walk on through the thick thyme , still fragrant though the sun have scorch its leaf . not a single herdsman do we meet , not one solitary hut do we pass . everything be quiet and desert ; but a shooting star announce that in heaven there be yet life . I know not if the clear blue air gleam with light of its own , or if the radiance come from the star ; but we could see the outline of the mountain quite plainly . my mother light a fire , roasted some root she have bring with she , and I and my little sister sleep among the thyme , without fear of the ugly Smidraki , -lrb-B- 4aaaaa -rrb-B- aaa from whose throat fire spurt forth , or of the wolf and jackal ; for my mother sit beside we , and I consider she presence protection enough for we . we reach we old home ; but the hut be a heap of ruin , and a new one have to be build . a few woman lend my mother they aid , and in a few day wall be raise , and cover with a new roof of olive branch . my mother make many bottle case of bark and skin ; I keep the little flock of the priest , -lrb-B- 5aaaaa -rrb-B- aaa and Anastasia and the little tortoise be my playmate . -lrb-B- footnote 4 : accord to the greek superstition , this be a monster generate from the unopened entrails of slaughter sheep , which be throw away in the field . aaaaa -rrb-B- aaa -lrb-B- footnote 5 : a peasant who can read often become a priest ; he be then call `` very holy Sir , '' and the lower order kiss the ground on which he have step . aaaaa -rrb-B- aaa once we have a visit from we beloved Aphtanides , who say he have greatly long to see we , and who stay with we two whole happy day . a month afterwards he come again , and tell we that he be go in a ship to Corfu and Patras , but must bid we good-bye first ; and he have bring a large fish for we mother . he have a great deal to tell , not only of the fisherman yonder in the Gulf of Lepanto , but also of king and hero , who have once possess Greece , just as the TurksS possess it now . I have see a bud on a rose-bush gradually unfold in day and week , till it become a rose , and hang there in its beauty , before I be aware how large and beautiful and red it have become ; and the same thing I now see in Anastasia . she be now a beautiful grown girl , and I have become a stout stripling . the wolf-skins that cover my mother 's and Anastasia 's bed , I have myself take from wolf that have fall beneath my shot . year have go by , when one evening aphtanide come in , slender as a reed , strong and brown . he kiss we all , and have much to tell of the fortification of Malta , of the great ocean , and of the marvellous sepulchre of Egypt . it sound strange as a legend of the priest , and I look up to he with a kind of veneration . `` how much you know ! '' I exclaim ; `` what wonder you can tell of ! '' `` but you have tell I the finest thing , after all , '' he reply . `` you tell I of a thing that have never be out of my thought -- of the good old custom of the bond of friendship , a custom I should like to follow . brother , let you and I go to church , as you father and Anastasia 's go before we : you sister Anastasia be the most beautiful and most innocent of girl ; she shall consecrate we ! no people have such grand old custom as we GreeksS . '' Anastasia blush like a young rose , and my mother kiss Aphtanides . a couple of mile from we house there , where loose earth lie on the hill , and a few scattered tree give a shelter , stand the little church ; a silver lamp hang in front of the altar . I have put on my best clothes : the white fustanellum fall in rich fold around my hip , the red jacket fit tight and close , the tassel on my fez cap be silver , and in my girdle gleam a knife and my pistol . aphtanide be clothe in the blue garb worn by greek sailor ; on he chest hang a silver plate with the figure of the Virgin Mary ; he scarf be as costly as those worn by rich lord . every one could see that we be about to go through a solemn ceremony . we step into the little simple church , where the evening sunlight , stream through the door , gleam on the burning lamp and the picture on golden ground . we kneel down on the altar step , and Anastasia come before we . a long white garment hang loose over she graceful form ; on she white neck and bosom hang a chain , cover with old and new coin , form a kind of collar . she black hair be fasten in a knot , and confine by a head-dress make of silver and gold coin that have be find in a old temple . no greek girl have more beautiful ornament than she . she countenance glow , and she eye be like two star . we all three prayed silently ; and then she say to we , `` Will you be friend in life and in death ? '' `` yes , '' we reply . `` will you , whatever may happen , remember this -- my brother be a part of myself . my secret be he , my happiness be he . self-sacrifice , patience -- everything in I belong to he as to I ? '' and we again answer , `` Yes . '' then she join we hand and kiss we on the forehead , and we again pray silently . then the priest come through the door near the altar , and bless we all three ; and a song , sing by the other holy man , sound from behind the altar screen , and the bond of eternal friendship be conclude . when we rise , I see my mother standing by the church door weep heartily . how cheerful it be now , in we little hut , and by the spring of Delphi ! on the evening before he departure , Aphtanides sit thoughtful with I on the declivity of a mountain ; he arm be flung round my waist , and mine be round he neck : we speak of the sorrow of Greece , and of the man whom the country could trust . every thought of we soul lay clear before each of we , and I seize he hand . `` one thing thou must still know , one thing that till now have be a secret between myself and Heaven . my whole soul be fill with love ! with a love stronger than the love I bear to my mother and to thee ! '' `` and whom do you love ? '' ask Aphtanides , and he face and neck grow red as fire . `` I love Anastasia , '' I reply -- and he hand tremble in mine , and he become pale as a corpse . I see it ; I understand the cause ; and I believe _ my _ hand tremble . I bent towards he , kiss he forehead , and whisper , `` I have never speak of it to she , and perhaps she do not love I . brother , think of this : I have see she daily ; she have grow up beside I , and have become a part of my soul ! '' `` and she shall be thine ! '' he exclaim , `` thine ! I may not deceive thee , nor will I do so . I also love she ; but to-morrow I depart . in a year we shall see each other once more , and then you will be marry , will you not ? I have a little gold of my own : it shall be thine . Thou must , thou shalt take it . '' and we wander home silently across the mountain . it be late in the evening when we stand at my mother 's door . Anastasia hold the lamp upward as we enter ; my mother be not there . she gaze at AphtanidesS with a beautifully mournful gaze . `` to-morrow you be go from we , '' she say : `` I be very sorry for it . '' `` sorry ! '' he repeat , and in he voice there seem a trouble as great as the grief I myself feel . I could not speak , but he seize she hand and say , `` we brother yonder love you , and he be dear to you , be he not ? he very silence be a proof of he affection . '' Anastasia tremble and burst into tear . then I see no one but she , think of none but she , and throw my arm round she , and say , `` I love thee ! '' she press she lip to mine , and fling she arm round my neck ; but the lamp have fall to the ground , and all be dark around we -- dark as in the heart of poor AphtanidesS . before daybreak he rise , kiss we all , say farewell , and go away . he have give all he money to my mother for we . Anastasia be my betrothed , and a few day afterwards she become my wife .