the BUCKING-TUB La Fontain if once in love , you 'll soon invention find and not to cunning trick and freak be blind ; the youngest ` prentice , when he feel the dart , grow wondrous shrewd , and study wily art . this passion never , we perceive , remain in want from paucity of scheming brain . the god of heart so well exert he force , that he receive he due as thing of course . a bucking-tub , of which a tale be tell , will prove the case , and this I 'll now unfold ; ParticularsS I hear some day ago , from one who seem each circumstance to know . within a country town , no matter where , its appellation nothing would declare , a cooper and he wife , whose name be nan , kept house , and through some difficulty run . though scanty be they means , LOVE thither fly ; and with he bring a friend to take a view ; 'Twas Cuckoldom accompany the boy , two god most intimate , who like to toy , and , never ceremonious , seek to please Go where they will , still equally at ease ; ` tis all for they good lodging , fare , or bed ; and , hut or palace , pleasantly they tread . it happen then , a spark this fair caressed , and , when he hope most fully to be bless , when all be ready to complete the scene , and on a point : -- if naught should intervene not name howe'er will quite enough suffice , when suddenly the husband , by surprise , return from drinking at a ale-house near , just when , just when : -- the rest be pretty clear . THEY curse he come ; trouble o ` er they spread ; Naught could be do but hide the lover 's head ; beneath a bucking-tub , in utmost haste , within the court , we gay gallant be place . the husband , as he enter , loudly cry , I have sell we bucking-tub . the wife reply , what price , I pray ? -- three crown rejoin the man ; then thou ` rt a silly ass , say mistress Nan ; To-day , by my address , I have gain a crown , and sell the same for twenty shilling down : my bargain luckily the first be make ; the buyer , -lrb-B- who of flaw be much afraid -rrb-B- examine now if ev ` ry part be tight ; he be in the tub to see if all be right . what , blockhead , would ` st thou do without thy wife ? Thou huntest tavern while she work for life ; but necessary ` ti for she to act , when thou art out , or naught would be exact . no pleasure ever yet receive have I ; but take my word , to get it now I 'll try . gallant be plenty ; husband should have wife ; that , like themselves , lead gay or sober life . I prythee softly , wife , the husband say ; come , come , sir , leave the tub , there be naught to dread ; when you be out , I 'll ev ` ry quarter scrape , then try if water from it can escape ; I 'll warrant it to be as good as nice , and nothing can be better worth the price . OUT come the lover ; in the husband go ; Scraped here and there , and try if any vent ; with candle in he hand look round and round , not dream once that love without be find . but nothing he could see of what be do ; and while the cooper seek to overrun the various part , and by the tub be hide , the god already notice thither slide ; a job be by the deity propose , that highly please the couple when disclose ; a very diff ` rent work from what within the husband have , who scrape with horrid din , and rub , and scrub , and beat so very well , fresh courage take we gay gallant and belle ; they now resume the thread so sadly lose , when , by the cooper 's come , all be cross . the reader will not require to know the rest ; what pass perhaps may easily be guess . ` Tis quite enough , my thesis I have prove ; the artful trick we pair with rapture move . nor one nor t ` other be a ` prentice new ; a lover be : -- and wile you 'll soon pursue .