1 the Frog-King , or Iron Henry BrothersS Grimm in old time when wish still help one , there live a king whose daughter be all beautiful , but the youngest be so beautiful that the sun itself , which have see so much , be astonish whenever it shine in she face . close by the King 's castle lay a great dark forest , and under a old lime-tree in the forest be a well , and when the day be very warm , the King 's child go out into the forest and sit down by the side of the cool fountain , and when she be dull she take a golden ball , and throw it up on high and catch it , and this ball be she favorite plaything . now it so happen that on one occasion the princess 's golden ball do not fall into the little hand which she be hold up for it , but on to the ground beyond , and roll straight into the water . the King 's daughter follow it with she eye , but it vanish , and the well be deep , so deep that the bottom could not be see . on this she begin to cry , and cry louder and louder , and could not be comfort . and as she thus lament some one say to she , `` what ail thee , King 's daughter ? Thou weepest so that even a stone would show pity . '' she look round to the side from whence the voice come , and see a frog stretch forth its thick , ugly head from the water . `` ah ! old water-splasher , be it thou ? '' say she ; `` I be weep for my golden ball , which have fall into the well . '' `` be quiet , and do not weep , '' answer the frog , `` I can help thee , but what wilt thou give I if I bring thy playthe up again ? '' `` whatever thou wilt have , dear frog , '' say she -- `` my clothes , my pearl and jewel , and even the golden crown which I be wear . '' the frog answer , `` I do not care for thy clothes , thy pearl and jewel , or thy golden crown , but if thou wilt love I and let I be thy companion and play-fellow , and sit by thee at thy little table , and eat off thy little golden plate , and drink out of thy little cup , and sleep in thy little bed -- if thou wilt promise I this I will go down below , and bring thee thy golden ball up again . '' `` oh yes , '' say she , `` I promise thee all thou wishest , if thou wilt but bring I my ball back again . '' she , however , think , `` how the silly frog do talk ! he live in the water with the other frog , and croak , and can be no companion to any human being ! '' but the frog when he have receive this promise , put he head into the water and sink down , and in a short while come swimmm up again with the ball in he mouth , and throw it on the grass . the King 's daughter be delighted to see she pretty plaything once more , and pick it up , and run away with it . `` wait , wait , '' say the frog . `` take I with thee . I can not run as thou canst . '' but what do it avail he to scream he croak , croak , after she , as loudly as he could ? she do not listen to it , but run home and soon forget the poor frog , who be force to go back into he well again . the next day when she have seat herself at table with the King and all the courtier , and be eat from she little golden plate , something come creep splish splash , splish splash , up the marble staircase , and when it have get to the top , it knock at the door and cry , `` Princess , youngest princess , open the door for I . '' she run to see who be outside , but when she open the door , there sit the frog in front of it . then she slam the door to , in great haste , sit down to dinner again , and be quite frightened . the King see plainly that she heart be beat violently , and say , `` my child , what art thou so afraid of ? be there perchance a giant outside who want to carry thee away ? '' `` ah , no , '' reply she . `` it be no giant but a disgusting frog . '' `` what do a frog want with thee ? '' `` ah , dear father , yesterday as I be in the forest sit by the well , play , my golden ball fall into the water . and because I cry so , the frog bring it out again for I , and because he so insist , I promise he he should be my companion , but I never think he would be able to come out of he water ! and now he be outside there , and want to come in to I . '' in the meantime it knock a second time , and cry , `` Princess ! youngest princess ! open the door for I ! Dost thou not know what thou saidst to I yesterday by the cool water of the fountain ? Princess , youngest princess ! open the door for I ! '' then say the King , `` that which thou hast promise must thou perform . go and let he in . '' she go and open the door , and the frog hop in and follow she , step by step , to she chair . there he sit and cry , `` lift I up beside thee . '' she delay , until at last the King command she to do it . when the frog be once on the chair he want to be on the table , and when he be on the table he say , `` now , push thy little golden plate nearer to I that we may eat together . '' she do this , but it be easy to see that she do not do it willingly . the frog enjoy what he eat , but almost every mouthful she take choke she . at length he say , `` I have eat and be satisfied ; now I be tired , carry I into thy little room and make thy little silken bed ready , and we will both lie down and go to sleep . '' the King 's daughter begin to cry , for she be afraid of the cold frog which she do not like to touch , and which be now to sleep in she pretty , clean little bed . but the King grow angry and say , `` he who help thee when thou wert in trouble ought not afterwards to be despise by thee . '' so she take hold of the frog with two finger , carry he upstairs , and put he in a corner . but when she be in bed he creep to she and say , `` I be tired , I want to sleep as well as thou , lift I up or I will tell thy father . '' then she be terribly angry , and take he up and throw he with all she might against the wall . `` now , thou wilt be quiet , odious frog , '' say she . but when he fall down he be no frog but a King 's son with beautiful kind eye . he by she father 's will be now she dear companion and husband . then he tell she how he have be bewitch by a wicked witch , and how no one could have deliver he from the well but herself , and that to-morrow they would go together into he kingdom . then they go to sleep , and next morning when the sun awake they , a carriage come drive up with eight white horse , which have white ostrich feather on they head , and be harness with golden chain , and behind stand the young King 's servant Faithful Henry . Faithful Henry have be so unhappy when he master be change into a frog , that he have cause three iron band to be lay round he heart , lest it should burst with grief and sadness . the carriage be to conduct the young King into he Kingdom . Faithful Henry help they both in , and place himself behind again , and be full of joy because of this deliverance . and when they have drive a part of the way the King 's son hear a crack behind he as if something have break . so he turn round and cry , `` Henry , the carriage be break . '' `` no , master , it be not the carriage . it be a band from my heart , which be put there in my great pain when you be a frog and imprison in the well . '' again and once again while they be on they way something crack , and each time the King 's son think the carriage be break ; but it be only the band which be spring from the heart of faithful Henry because he master be set free and be happy .