the bell-deep . H. C. Andersen `` ding-dong ! ding-dong ! '' it sound up from the `` bell-deep , '' in the Odense-Au . every child in the old town of Odense , on the island of Fuenen , know the Au , which wash the garden round about the town , and flow on under the wooden bridge from the dam to the water-mill . in the Au grow the yellow water-lilies and brown feathery reed ; the dark velvety flag grow there , high and thick ; old , decayed willow , slant and totter , hang far out over the stream beside the monk ' meadow and by the bleaching-ground ; but opposite there be garden upon garden , each different from the rest , some with pretty flower and bower like little doll ' pleasure-grounds , often display only cabbage and other kitchen plant ; and here and there the garden can not be see at all , for the great elder tree that spread themselves out by the bank , and hang far out over the stream water , which be deeper here and there than a oar can fathom . opposite the old nunnery be the deepest place , which be call the `` bell-deep , '' and there dwell the old water spirit , the `` au-mann . '' this spirit sleep through the day while the sun shine down upon the water ; but in starry and moonlit night he show himself . he be very old : grandmother say that she have hear she own grandmother tell of he ; he be say to lead a solitary life , and to have nobody with whom he can converse save the great old church bell . once the bell hang in the church tower ; but now there be no trace left of the tower or of the church , which be call St. Alban 's . `` ding-dong ! ding-dong ! '' sound the bell , when the tower still stand there ; and one evening , while the sun be set , and the bell be swing away bravely , it break loose and come fly down through the air , the brilliant metal shine in the ruddy beam . `` ding-dong ! ding-dong ! now I 'll retire to rest ! '' sing the bell , and fly down into the Odense-Au where it be deepest ; and that be why the place be call the `` bell-deep . '' but the bell get neither rest nor sleep . down in the Au-mann 's haunt it sound and ring , so that the tone sometimes pierce upward through the water ; and many people maintain that its strain forebode the death of some one ; but that be not true , for then the bell be only talk with the au-mann , who be now no longer alone . and what be the bell tell ? it be old , very old , as we have already observe ; it be there long before grandmother 's grandmother be bear ; and yet it be but a child in comparison with the au-mann , who be a old quiet personage , a oddity , with he hose of eel-skin , and he scaly jacket with the yellow lily for button , and a wreath of reed in he hair and seaweed in he beard ; but he look very pretty for all that . -lrb-B- illustration : the au-mann listen to the BELL . aaaaa -rrb-B- aaa what the bell tell ? to repeat it all would require year and day ; for year by year it be tell the old story , sometimes short one , sometimes long one , accord to its whim ; it tell of old time , of the dark hard time , thus : `` in the church of St. Alban , the monk mount up into the tower . he be young and handsome , but thoughtful exceedingly . he look through the loophole out upon the Odense-Au , when the bed of the water be yet broad , and the monk ' meadow be still a lake ; he look out over it , and over the rampart , and over the nun ' hill opposite , where the convent lay , and the light gleam forth from the nun 's cell ; he have know the nun right well , and he think of she , and he heart beat quicker as he think . ding-dong ! ding-dong ! '' Yes , this be the story the bell tell . `` Into the tower come also the dapper man-servant of the bishop ; and when I , the bell , who be make of metal , ring hard and loud , and swing to and fro , I might have beat out he brain . he sit down close under I , and play with two little stick as if they have be a stringe instrument ; and he sing to it . ` now I may sing it out aloud , though at other time I may not whisper it . I may sing of everything that be keep conceal behind lock and bar . yonder it be cold and wet . the rat be eat she up alive ! nobody know of it ! nobody hear of it ! not even now , for the bell be ring and sing its loud ding-dong ! ding-dong . ' `` there be a king in those day ; they call he Canute . he bow himself before bishop and monk ; but when he offend the free peasant with heavy tax and hard word , they seize they weapon and put he to flight like a wild beast . he seek shelter in the church , and shut gate and door behind he . the violent band surround the church ; I hear tell of it . the crow , raven , and magpie start up in terror at the yell and shout that sound around . they fly into the tower and out again , they look down upon the throng below , and they also look into the window of the church , and scream out aloud what they see there . King Canute knelt before the altar in prayer , he brother Eric and Benedict stand by he as a guard with draw sword ; but the king 's servant , the treacherous Blake , betray he master ; the throng in front of the church know where they could hit the king , and one of they fling a stone through a pane of glass , and the king lay there dead ! the cry and scream of the savage horde and of the bird sound through the air , and I join in it also ; for I sing ` ding-dong ! ding-dong ! ' `` the church bell hang high and look far around , and see the bird around it , and understand they language ; the wind roar in upon it through window and loophole ; and the wind know everything , for he get it from the air , which encircle all thing , and the church bell understand he tongue , and ring it out into the world , ` ding-dong ! ding-dong ! ' `` but it be too much for I to hear and to know ; I be not able any longer to ring it out . I become so tired , so heavy , that the beam break , and I fly out into the gleaming Au where the water be deepest , and where the au-mann life , solitary and alone ; and year by year I tell he what I have hear and what I know . ding-dong ! ding-dong ! '' thus it sound complainingly out of the bell-deep in the Odense-Au : that be what grandmother tell we . but the schoolmaster say that there be not any bell that ring down there , for that it could not do so ; and that no au-mann dwelt yonder , for there be no au-mann at all ! and when all the other church bell be sound sweetly , he say that it be not really the bell that be sound , but that it be the air itself which send forth the note ; and grandmother say to we that the bell itself say it be the air who tell it he , consequently they be agree on that point , and this much be sure . `` be cautious , cautious , and take good heed to thyself , '' they both say . the air know everything . it be around we , it be in we , it talk of we thought and of we deed , and it speak longer of they than do the bell down in the depths of the Odense-Au where the au-mann dwell ; it ring it out into the vault of heaven , far , far out , for ever and ever , till the heaven bell sound `` ding-dong ! ding-dong ! ''