the PICTURE La Fontain SOLICITED I have be to give a tale , in which -lrb-B- though true , decorum must prevail -rrb-B- , the subject from a picture shall arise , that by a curtain 's keep from vulgar eye . my brain must furnish various feature new : what be delicate and smart produce to view ; by this express , and not by t ` other say : and all so clear , most easy to be read , by ev ` ry fool , without the aid of note , that idiot 's bad indeed who never quote . CATULLUS tell we , ev ` ry matron sage Will peep most willingly -lrb-B- whate'er she age -rrb-B- , at that gigantick gift , which Juno make , to Venus ' fruit , in garden oft display . if any belle recede , and shun the sight , Dissimulation she suppose right . this principle allow , why scruple make ? why , less than eye , should ear a license take ? but since ` tis so resolve I 'll do my best , and naught in open term shall be express : a veil shall over ev ` ry charm be cast , of gauze indeed , and this from first to last , so nicely do , that howsoever tost , to none I trust will any thing be lose . who nicely think , and speak with graceful ease ; can current make just whatsoe'er he please ; for all will pass , as I have often know : the word well choose , pardon soon be show , the sex o ` erlook the thing no more the same , the thought remain , but ` tis without a name ; no blush be raise ; no difficulty find ; yet ev ` ry body understand around . AT present , much I need this useful art : why ? you will ask ; because , when I impart such wondrous circumstance , ev ` ry belle , without reserve , will con they over well . to this I answer : female ear be chaste , though roguish be they eye , as well as taste . be that as ` twill , I certainly should like , with freedom to explain , by term oblique , to belle , how this be break : -- that be down : assist I pray , ye NINE of high renown ; but you be maid , and stranger , we agree , to LOVE be soft scene , not know a from B. Remain then , muse , never stir a inch , but beg the god of verse , when at a pinch , to help I out and kind assistance lend , to choose expression which will not offend , lest I some silly thing should chance to say , that might displeasure raise , and spoil my lay . Enough , howe'er , we have on the subject say : ` tis time we t ` ward the painting should be lead , which a adventure you will find contain , that happen once in Cupid 's famed domain . in former day , just by Cythera town a monastery be , of some renown , with nun the queen of beauty fill the place , and gay gallant you easily might trace . the courtier , citizen , and parson too , the doctor and the bachelor you would view , with eager step : -- all visit thither make ; and ` mong the latter , one -lrb-B- a pleasing blade -rrb-B- have free access : be think a prudent friend , who might to sister many comfort lend ; be always closely shave and nicely dress ; and ev ` ry thing he say be well express ; the breath of scandal , howsoever pat , Ne'er light on he neat cravat nor hat . two nun alternatively , from the youth ; Experienced many service , in truth ; the one have recently a novice be ; few month have pass since she complete be see ; the other still the dress of novice wear ; the youngest 's age be seventeen year , not more time doubtless very proper -lrb-B- to be plain -rrb-B- Love 's wily thesis fully to sustain : the bachelor so well the fair have teach , and they so earnestly the science seek , that by experience both the art have learn , and ev ` ry thing most perfectly discern . these sister eagerly have make one day a assignation with the lover gay ; to have the entertainment quite complete , they would Bacchus , Ceres too , who Venus greet : with perfect neatness all the meat be serve , and naught from grace and elegancy swerve ; the wine , the custard , jelly , cream , and ice : the decoration , ev ` ry thing be nice ; what please object and delight be view ! the room with sweetest flow ` r fair Flora strew ; a sort of garden o ` er the linen trace here lake of love : -- there name entwine be place ; Magnificence like this the nun admire , and such amusement ardently desire . they beauty too incite to be free ; a thousand matter fill they soul with glee ; in height the belle be pretty much the same like alabaster fair ; of perfect frame ; in num ` rous corner cupid nestling lay : beneath a stomacher he would slyly play , a veil or scapulary , this or that , where least the eye of day perceive he sit , unless a lover call to mystick bow ` r , where he might heart entwine with chain of flow ` r ; a thousand time a day the urchin fly , with open arm the sister to pursue ; they charm be such in ev ` ry air and look , both -lrb-B- one by one -rrb-B- he for he mother take . with anxious look , the lady thus prepare , expect he who all they kindness share ; now they bestow abuse ; next fondly praise : then of he conduct dark suspicion raise , Conceived , a new amour he keep away : what can it be , say one , that make he stay ? of honor a affair . -- love -- sickness -- what ? Said t ` other whether it be this or that , if here again he face he ever show , a pretty trick in turn we 'll let he know . while thus the couple seek they plot to frame , a convent porter with a burden come , for she who keep the store of ev ` ry kind , Depositary of the whole design . 'twa merely a pretence , as I be tell : the thing be not require for young or old ; but she much appetite have get in truth , which make she have recourse to such a youth , who be regard , in repast like these , a first rate cook that all prepare at ease . this awkward , heavy lout mistook the cell ; by chance upon we lady ' room he fall , and knock with weighty hand : they ope would the door . and give abuse , but soon they anger o ` er , the nun conceive a treasure they have find , and , laugh heartily , no longer frowned , but both exclaim at once : let 's take this fool ; of he we easily can make a tool ; as well as t ` other , do not you think he 'll do ? the eldest add : -- let 's we whim pursue ; ` ti well determine ; -- what be we to get , that here we wait , and be wait yet ? fine word and phrase ; nothing of the kind ; this wight 's as good , for what we have a mind , as any bachelor or doctor wise at all event , for present , he 'll suffice . SHE rightly judge ; he height , form , simple air , and ev ` ry act , so clearly void of care , raise expectation ; this be AEsop 's man , he never think : 'twa all without a plan ; both eat and drank , and , have he be at will , would matter far have push , though void of skill . familiar grown , the fellow ready seem , to execute whate'er be proper deem ; to serve the convent he be porter make , and in they wish nun of course obey . ` TIS here begin the subject we have in view , the scene that faithfully we painter draw ; Apollo , give I aid , assistance lend , enable I , I pray , to comprehend , why this mean stupid rustick sit at ease , and leave the sister -lrb-B- Claudia , form to please , and lovely fair Theresa -rrb-B- all the care ? have he not better do to give a chair ? I think I hear the god of verse reply : not quite so fast my friend , you may rely , these matter never can the probe endure ; I understand you ; Cupid , to be sure , be doubtless find a very roguish boy , who , though he please at time , will oft annoy ; I be wrong a wicked whelp like this to take , and , master of the ceremony make . no sooner in a house the urchin get , but rule and law he at defiance set ; the place of reason whim at once assume , BreaksS ev ` ry obstacle , fret , rage , fume . with scene like these will cupid oft surprise , and frantick passion sparkle in he eye . soon on the floor be see this boorish wight ; for , whether that the chair be rather slight , or that the composition of the clown be not , like that of goose , of softest down , or that Theresa , by she gay discourse , have penetrate to the mystick source , the be ` rous pulpit suddenly give way , and on the ground the rustick quickly lay . the first attempt have clearly bad success , and fair theresa suffer you may guess . YE censor keep from hence you eye prophane ; See , honest heart , how Claudia try amain , to take advantage of the dire mishap , and all she could , with eagerness entrap ; for in the fall Theresa lose she hold ; the other push she : -- further off she roll ; and