the DUMB BOOK . H. C. Andersen by the high-road in the forest lay a lonely peasant 's hut ; the road go right through the farmyard . the sun shone down , and all the window be open . in the house be bustle and movement ; but in the garden , in a arbor of blossom elder , stand a open coffin . a dead man have be carry out here , and he be to be bury this morning . nobody stand by the coffin and look sorrowfully at the dead man ; no one shed a tear for he : he face be cover with a white cloth , and under he head lay a great thick book , whose leaf consist of whole sheet of blot paper , and on each leaf lay a fade flower . it be a complete herbanum , gather by he in various place ; it be to be bury with he , for so he have wish it . with each flower a chapter in he life be associate . -lrb-B- illustration : the power of the book . aaaaa -rrb-B- aaa `` who be the dead man ? '' we ask ; and the answer be : `` the Old Student . they say he be once a brisk lad , and study the old language , and sing , and even write poem . then something happen to he that make he turn he thought to brandy , and take to it ; and when at last he have ruin he health , he come out here into the country , where somebody pay for he board and lodging . he be as gentle as a child , except when the dark mood come upon he ; but when it come he become like a giant , and then run about in the wood like a hunt stag ; but when we once get he home again , and prevail with he so far that he open the book with the dry plant , he often sit whole day , and look sometimes at one plant and sometimes at another , and at time the tear roll over he cheek : Heaven know what he be think of . but he beg we to put the book into the coffin , and now he lie there , and in a little while the lid will be nail down , and he will have he quiet rest in the grave . '' the face-cloth be raise , and there be peace upon the feature of the dead man , and a sunbeam play upon it ; a swallow shot with arrowy flight into the arbor , and turn rapidly , and twitter over the dead man 's head . what a strange feeling it be -- and we have doubtless all experience it -- that of turn over old letter of the day of we youth ! a new life seem to come up with they , with all its hope and sorrow . how many person with whom we be intimate in those day , be as it be dead to we ! and yet they be alive , but for a long time we have not think of they -- of they whom we then think to hold fast for age , and with whom we be to share sorrow and joy . here the withered oak-leaf in the book remind the owner of the friend , the school-fellow , who be to be a friend for life : he fasten the green leaf in the student 's cap in the green wood , when the bond be make `` for life : '' where do he live now ? the leaf be preserve , but the friendship have perish ! and here be a foreign hothouse plant , too delicate for the garden of the North ; the leaf almost seem to keep they fragrance still . she give it to he , the young lady in the nobleman 's garden . here be the water rise , which he pluck himself , and moisten with salt tear -- the rose of the sweet water . and here be a nettle -- what tale may its leaf have to tell ? what be he thought when he pluck it and keep it ? here be a lily of the valley , from the solitude of the forest . here 's a evergreen from the flower-pot of the tavern ; and here be a naked sharp blade of grass . the bloom elder wave its fresh fragrant blossom over the dead man 's head , and the swallow fly past again . `` pee-wit ! pee-wit ! '' and now the man come with nail and hammer , and the lid be lay over the dead man , that he head may rest upon the dumb book -- vanish and scatter !