119 the Seven SwabiansS BrothersS Grimm Seven SwabiansS be once together . the first be Master Schulz ; the second , Jackli ; the third , Marli ; the fourth , Jergli ; the fifth , Michal ; the sixth , Hans ; the seventh , Veitli : all seven have make up they mind to travel about the world to seek adventure , and perform great deed . but in order that they might go in security and with arm in they hand , they think it would be advisable that they should have one solitary , but very strong , and very long spear make for they . this spear all seven of they take in they hand at once ; in front walk the boldest and bravest , and that be Master Schulz ; all the other follow in a row , and Veitli be the last . then it come to pass one day in the hay-making month -lrb-B- July -rrb-B- , when they have walk a long distance , and still have a long way to go before they reach the village where they be to pass the night , that as they be in a meadow in the twilight a great beetle or hornet fly by they from behind a bush , and hum in a menace manner . Master Schulz be so terrify that he all but drop the spear , and a cold perspiration break out over he whole body . `` Hark ! hark ! '' cry he to he comrade , `` good heaven ! I hear a drum . '' Jackli , who be behind he hold the spear , and who perceive some kind of a smell , say , `` something be most certainly go on , for I taste powder and match . '' at these word Master Schulz begin to take to flight , and in a trice jump over a hedge , but as he just happen to jump on to the tooth of a rake which have be leave lie there after the hay-making , the handle of it strike against he face and give he a tremendous blow . `` oh dear ! oh dear ! '' scream Master Schulz . `` take I prisoner ; I surrender ! I surrender ! '' the other six all leap over , one on the top of the other , cry , `` if you surrender , I surrender too ! if you surrender , I surrender too ! '' at length , as no enemy be there to bind and take they away , they see that they have be mistake , and in order that the story might not be know , and they be treat as fool and ridicule , they all swear to each other to hold they peace about it until one of they accidentally speak of it . then they journey onward . the second danger which they survive can not be compare with the first . some day afterwards , they path lead they through a fallow-field where a hare be sit sleep in the sun . she ear be stand straight up , and she great glassy eye be wide open . all of they be alarm at the sight of the horrible wild beast , and they consult together as to what it would be the least dangerous to do . for if they be to run away , they know that the monster would pursue and swallow they whole . so they say , `` we must go through a great and dangerous struggle . boldly venture , be half won , '' and all seven grasp the spear , Master Schulz in front , and Veitli behind . Master Schulz be always try to keep the spear back , but Veitli have become quite brave while behind , and want to dash forward and cry , `` strike home , in every swabian 's name , or else I wish ye may be lame . '' but Hans know how to meet this , and say , `` thunder and lightning , it be fine to prate , but for dragon-hunting thou ` rt aye too late . '' Michal cry , `` nothing be want , not even a hair , be sure the Devil himself be there . '' then it be Jergli 's turn to speak , `` if it be not , it be at least he mother , or else it be the Devil 's own step-brother . '' and now Marli have a bright thought , and say to Veitli , `` Advance , Veitli , advance , advance , and I behind will hold the lance . '' Veitli , however , do not attend to that , and Jackli say , `` Tis Schulz 's place the first to be , no one deserve that honor but he . '' then Master Schulz pluck up he courage , and say , gravely , `` then let we boldly advance to the fight , and thus we shall show we valor and might . '' Hereupon they all together set on the dragon . Master Schulz cross himself and pray for God 's assistance , but as all this be of no avail , and he be get nearer and nearer to the enemy , he scream `` Oho ! oho ! ho ! ho ! ho ! '' in the greatest anguish . this awaken the hare , which in great alarm dart swiftly away . when Master Schulz see she thus fly from the field of battle , he cry in he joy . `` Quick , Veitli , quick , look there , look there , the monster 's nothing but a hare ! '' but the swabian ally go in search of further adventure , and come to the Moselle , a mossy , quiet , deep river , over which there be few bridge , and which in many place people have to cross in boat . as the seven SwabiansS do not know this , they call to a man who be work on the opposite side of the river , to know how people contrived to get across . the distance and they way of speaking make the man unable to understand what they want , and he say `` what ? what ? '' in the way people speak in the neighborhood of Treves . Master Schulz think he be say , `` Wade , wade through the water , '' and as he be the first , begin to set out and go into the moselle . it be not long before he sink in the mud and the deep wave which drive against he , but he hat be blow on the opposite shore by the wind , and a frog sit down beside it , and croak `` Wat , wat , wat . '' the other six on the opposite side hear that , and say , `` Oho , comrade , Master Schulz be call we ; if he can wade across , why can not we ? '' so they all jump into the water together in a great hurry , and be drown , and thus one frog take the life of all six of they , and not one of the swabian ally ever reach home again .