the peasant and he angry LORD La Fontain once on a time , as hist ` ry 's page relate , a lord , possess of many large estate , be angry with a poor and humble clod , who till he grounds and fear he very nod . Th ' offence -lrb-B- as often happen -rrb-B- be but small , but on he , vow the peer , he rage should fall -- say he , a halter , rascal , you deserve ; you 'll never from the gallows-turnpike swerve : or , soon or late you swing will be find who , bear for hanging , ever yet be drown ? Howe'er you 'll smile to hear my lenient voice ; Observe , three punishment await you choice ; take which you will . -- the first be , you shall eat , of strongest garlick , thirty head complete ; no drink you 'll have between , nor sleep , nor rest ; you know a breach of promise I detest . or , on you shoulder further I propose , to give you , with a cudgel , thirty blow . or , if more pleasing , that you truly pay , the sum of thirty pound without delay . the peasant ` gan to turn thing in he mind : -- say he , to take the head I be not incline ; no drink , you say , between ; that make it worse ; to eat the garlick thus , would prove a curse . nor can I suffer on my tender back , that , with a cudgel , thirty blow you thwack . still harder thirty pound to pay appear ; Uncertain how to act , he hang fear . the noble peer he beg , upon he knee , he penitence to hear , and sentence ease . but mercy dwell not with the angry lord be this , cry he , the answer ? -- bring a cord . the peasant , tremble lest he life be seek ; the garlick choose , which presently be bring . upon a dish my lord the number tell ; Clod no way like the garlick to behold . with piteous mien the garlick head he take , then on it num ` rous way be lead to look , and grumble much , begin to spit and eat , just like a cat with mustard on she meat , to touch it with he tongue he dare not do ; he know not how to act or what pursue . the peer , delighted at the man 's distress , the garlick make he bite , and chew , and press , then gulp it down as if delicious fare ; the first he pass ; the second make he swear ; the third he find be every whit as sad , he wish the devil have it , 'twa so bad . in short , when at the twelfth we wight arrive , he think he mouth and throat of skin deprive . Said he , some drink I earnestly intreat ; what , Greg ` ry , cry my lord , dost feel a heat ; in thy repast dost love to wet thy jaw ? well ! well ! I will not object ; thou know ` st my law ; much good may ` t do thee ; here , some wine , some wine ! yet recollect , to drink , since you design , that afterward , my friend , you 'll have to choose the thirty blow , or thirty pound to lose . but , cry the peasant , I sincerely pray , you lordship 's goodness , that the garlick may be take in the account , for as to pelf , where can a humble lab ` rer , like myself , expect the sum of thirty pound to seize ? then , say the peer , be cudgel if you please ; take thirty thwack ; for naught the garlick go . to moisten well he throat , and ease he woe , the peasant drink a copious draught of wine , and then to bear the cudgel would resign . a single blow he patiently endure ; the second , howsoe'er , he patience cure ; the third be more severe , and each be worse ; the punishment he now begin to curse ; two lusty wight , with cudgel thrash he back and regularly give he thwack and thwack ; he cry , he roar , for grace he beg he lord , who mark each blow , and would no ease accord ; but carefully observe , from time to time , that lenity he always think sublime ; he gravity preserve ; consider too the blow receive and what continue due . AT length , when Greg ` ry twenty stroke have get , he piteously exclaim : -- if more 's my lot I never shall survive ! oh ! pray forgive , if you desire , my lord , that I should live . then down with thirty pound , reply the peer , since you the blow so much pretend to fear ; I be sorry for you ; but if all the gold be not prepared , you godfather , I be tell , can lend a part ; yet , since so far you have be , to flinch the rest you surely will not be see . the wretch peasant to he lordship fly , and tremble cried -- ` tis up ! the number view ! a scrutiny be make , which nothing gain ; no choice but pay the money now remain ; this grieve he much , and o ` er the fellow 's face ; the dewy drop be see to flow apace . all useless proved : -- the full demand he send , with which the peer express himself content . Unlucky he whoe'er he lord offend ! to golden ore , howe'er , the proud man bend : 'TWAS vain that Gregory a pardon pray ; for trivial fault the peasant dearly pay ; he throat enflame -- he tender back well beat -- he money go -- and all to make complete , without the least deduction for the pain , the blow and garlick give the tremble swain .