the FIRST VOYAGE of SINBAD the SAILOR . Arabian Writer my father leave I a considerable estate , the best part of which I spend in riotous living during my youth ; but I perceive my error , and reflect that riches be perishable , and quickly consume by such ill manager as myself . I further consider that by my irregular way of live I have wretchedly misspend my time which be the most valuable thing in the world . struck with those reflection , I collect the remains of my furniture , and sell all my patrimony by public auction to the highest bidder . then I enter into a contract with some merchant , who trade by sea : I take the advice of such as I think most capable to give it I ; and resolve to improve what money I have , I go to Balsora and embark with several merchant on board a ship which we jointly fit out . we set sail , and steer we course towards the East Indies , through the Persian Gulf , which be form by the coast of Arabia Felix on the right , and by those of Persia on the left , and , accord to common opinion , be seventy league across at the broadest part . the eastern sea , as well as that of the Indies , be very spacious : it be bound on one side by the coast of Abyssinia , and be 4,500 league in length to the isle of Vakvak . at first I be trouble with sea-sickness , but speedily recover my health , and be not afterwards trouble with that disease . in we voyage we touch at several island , where we sell or exchange we goods . one day , whilst under sail , we be becalm near a little island , almost even with the surface of the water , which resemble a green meadow . the captain order he sail to be furl , and permit such person as have a mind to do so to land upon the island , amongst whom I be one . but while we be divert ourselves with eating and drinking , and recover ourselves from the fatigue of the sea , the island on a sudden trembled , and shake we terribly . they perceive the tremble of the island on board the ship , and call we to re-embark speedily , or we should all be lose , for what we take for a island be only the back of a whale . the nimblest get into the sloop , other betake themselves to swimming ; but for my part I be still upon the back of the whale when he dive into the sea , and have time only to catch hold of a piece of wood that we have bring out of the ship to make a fire . meanwhile , the captain , have receive those on board who be in the sloop , and take up some of those that swim , resolve to use the favourable gale that have just rise , and hoist he sail , pursue he voyage , so that it be impossible for I to regain the ship . thus be I expose to the mercy of the wave , and struggle for my life all the rest of the day and the following night . next morning I find my strength go , and despair of save my life , when happily a wave throw I against a island . the bank be high and rugged , so that I could scarcely have get up have it not be for some root of tree , which fortune seem to have preserve in this place for my safety . be get up , I lay down upon the ground half dead until the sun appear ; then , though I be very feeble , both by reason of my hard labor and want of food , I creep along to look for some herb fit to eat , and have the good luck not only to find some , but likewise a spring of excellent water , which contribute much to restore I . after this I advance farther into the island , and come at last into a fine plain , where I perceive a horse feeding at a great distance . I go towards he , between hope and fear , not know whether I be go to lose my life or save it . presently I hear the voice of a man from under ground , who immediately appear to I , and ask who I be . I give he a account of my adventure ; after which , take I by the hand , he lead I into a cave , where there be several other people , no less amaze to see I than I be to see they . I eat some victuals which they offer I , and then ask they what they do in such a desert place . they answer that they be groom belong to King Mihrage , sovereign of the island , and that every year they bring thither the king 's horse . they add that they be to get home to-morrow , and have I be one day later I must have perish , because the inhabit part of the island be at a great distance , and it would have be impossible for I to have get thither without a guide . next morning they return with they horse to the capital of the island , take I with they , and present I to King Mihrage . he ask I who I be , and by what adventure I come into he dominion ? and , after I have satisfy he he tell I he be much concern for my misfortune , and at the same time order that I should want for nothing , which he officer be so generous and careful as to see exactly fulfil . be a merchant , I frequent the society of man of my own profession , and particularly inquire for those who be stranger , if perhaps I might hear any news from Bagdad , or find a opportunity to return thither , for King Mihrage 's capital be situate on the edge of the sea , and have a fine harbor , where ship arrive daily from the different quarter of the world . I frequent also the society of the learn IndiansS , and take delight in hear they discourse ; but withal I take care to make my court regularly to the king , and converse with the governor and petty king , he tributary , that be about he . they ask I a thousand question about my country , and I , be willing to inform myself as to they law and custom , ask they everything which I think worth know . there belong to this king a island name Cassel . they assure I that every night a noise of drum be hear there , whence the mariner fancy that it be the residence of Degial . I have a great mind to see this wonderful place , and on my way thither see fish of one hundred and two hundred cubit long , that occasion more fear than hurt , for they be so timid that they will fly at the rattle of two stick or board . I see likewise other fish , about a cubit in length , that have head like owl . as I be one day at the port after my return , a ship arrive , and as soon as she cast anchor , they begin to unload she , and the merchant on board order they goods to be carry into the warehouse . as I cast my eye upon some bale , and look at the name , I find my own , and perceive the bale to be the same that I have embark at Balsora . I also know the captain ; but be persuade that he believe I to be drown , I go and ask he whose bale they be . he reply : ` they belong to a merchant of Bagdad , call Sinbad , who come to sea with we ; but one day , be near a island , as we think , he go ashore with several other passenger upon this supposed island , which be only a monstrous whale that lay asleep upon the surface of the water ; but as soon as he feel the heat of the fire they have kindle on he back to dress some victuals he begin to move , and dive under water : most of the person who be upon he perish , and among they unfortunate Sinbad . those bale belong to he , and I be resolve to trade with they until I meet with some of he family , to whom I may return the profit . ' ` captain , ' say I , ` I be that Sinbad whom you think to be dead , and those bale be mine . ' when the captain hear I speak thus , ` O heaven , ' say he , ` whom can we ever trust now-a-days ? there be no faith leave among man . I see Sinbad perish with my own eye , and the passenger on board see it as well as I , and yet you tell I you be that Sinbad . what impudence be this ! to look at you , one would take you to be a man of honesty , and yet you tell a horrible falsehood , in order to possess yourself of what do not belong to you . ' ` have patience , captain , ' reply I ; ` do I the favor to hear what I have to say . ' ` very well , ' say he , ` speak ; I be ready to hear you . ' then I tell he how I escape , and by what adventure I meet with the groom of King Mihrage , who bring I to he court . he be soon persuade that I be no cheat , for there come people from he ship who know I , pay I great compliment , and express much joy to see I alive . at last he know I himself , and embrace I , ` Heaven be praise , ' say he , ` for you happy escape ; I can not enough express my joy for it : there be you goods ; take and do with they what you will . ' I thank he , acknowledge he honesty , and in return offer he part of my goods as a present , which he generously refuse . I take out what be most valuable in my bale , and present it to King Mihrage , who , know my misfortune , ask I how I come by such rarity . I acquaint he with the whole story . he be mightily please at my good luck , accept my present , and give I one much more considerable in return . upon this I take leave of he , and go aboard the same ship , after I have exchange my goods for the commodity of that country . I carry with I wood of aloe , sandal , camphor , nutmeg , clove , pepper , and ginger . we pass by several island , and at last arrive at Balsora , from whence I come to this city , with the value of one hundred thousand sequin . my family and I receive one another with transport of sincere friendship . I buy slave and fine land , and build I a great house . and thus I settle myself , resolve to forget the misery I have suffer , and to enjoy the pleasure of life .