the JELLY FISH and the monkey . Japanese Writer Long , long ago , in old Japan , the Kingdom of the Sea be govern by a wonderful king . he be call Rin Jin , or the Dragon King of the Sea . he power be immense , for he be the ruler of all sea creature both great and small , and in he keep be the jewel of the Ebb and Flow of the Tide . the Jewel of the Ebbing Tide when throw into the ocean cause the sea to recede from the land , and the Jewel of the Flowing Tide make the wave to rise mountain high and to flow in upon the shore like a tidal wave . the Palace of Rin Jin be at the bottom of the sea , and be so beautiful that no one have ever see anything like it even in dream . the wall be of coral , the roof of jadestone and chrysoprase , and the floor be of the finest mother-of-pearl . but the Dragon King , in spite of he wide-spreading Kingdom , he beautiful Palace and all its wonder , and he power which none dispute throughout the whole sea , be not at all happy , for he reign alone . at last he think that if he marry he would not only be happier , but also more powerful . so he decide to take a wife . call all he fish retainer together , he choose several of they as ambassador to go through the sea and seek for a young Dragon Princess who would be he bride . at last they return to the Palace bringing with they a lovely young dragon . she scale be of glitter green like the wing of summer beetle , she eye throw out glance of fire , and she be dress in gorgeous robe . all the jewel of the sea work in with embroidery adorn they . the King fall in love with she at once , and the wedding ceremony be celebrate with great splendor . every living thing in the sea , from the great whale down to the little shrimp , come in shoal to offer they congratulation to the bride and bridegroom and to wish they a long and prosperous life . never have there be such a assemblage or such gay festivity in the Fish-World before . the train of bearer who carry the bride 's possession to she new home seem to reach across the wave from one end of the sea to the other . each fish carry a phosphorescent lantern and be dress in ceremonial robe , gleam blue and pink and silver ; and the wave as they rise and fall and break that night seem to be rolling mass of white and green fire , for the phosphorus shone with double brilliancy in honor of the event . now for a time the Dragon King and he bride live very happily . they love each other dearly , and the bridegroom day after day take delight in show he bride all the wonder and treasure of he coral Palace , and she be never tire of wander with he through its vast hall and garden . Life seem to they both like a long summer 's day . two month pass in this happy way , and then the Dragon Queen fall ill and be oblige to stay in bed . the King be sorely trouble when he see he precious bride so ill , and at once send for the fish doctor to come and give she some medicine . he give special order to the servant to nurse she carefully and to wait upon she with diligence , but in spite of all the nurse ' assiduous care and the medicine that the doctor prescribe , the young Queen show no sign of recovery , but grow daily worse . then the Dragon King interview the doctor and blame he for not cure the Queen . the doctor be alarm at Rin Jin 's evident displeasure , and excuse he want of skill by say that although he know the right kind of medicine to give the invalid , it be impossible to find it in the sea . `` do you mean to tell I that you can not get the medicine here ? '' ask the Dragon King . `` it be just as you say ! '' say the doctor . `` tell I what it be you want for the Queen ? '' demand Rin Jin . `` I want the liver of a live monkey ! '' answer the doctor . `` the liver of a live monkey ! of course that will be most difficult to get , '' say the King . `` if we could only get that for the Queen , she Majesty would soon recover , '' say the doctor . `` very well , that decide it ; we must get it somehow or other . but where be we most likely to find a monkey ? '' ask the King . then the doctor tell the Dragon King that some distance to the south there be a Monkey Island where a great many monkey live . `` if only you could capture one of these monkey ? '' say the doctor . `` how can any of my people capture a monkey ? '' say the Dragon King , greatly puzzle . `` the monkey live on dry land , while we live in the water ; and out of we element we be quite powerless ! I do not see what we can do ! '' `` that have be my difficulty too , '' say the doctor . `` but amongst you innumerable servant you surely can find one who can go on shore for that express purpose ! '' `` something must be do , '' say the King , and call he chief steward he consult he on the matter . the chief steward thought for some time , and then , as if strike by a sudden thought , say joyfully : `` I know what we must do ! there be the kurage -lrb-B- jelly fish -rrb-B- . he be certainly ugly to look at , but he be proud of be able to walk on land with he four leg like a tortoise . let we send he to the Island of MonkeysS to catch one . '' the jelly fish be then summon to the King 's presence , and be tell by he Majesty what be require of he . the jelly fish , on be tell of the unexpected mission which be to be intrust to he , look very troubled , and say that he have never be to the island in question , and as he have never have any experience in catch monkey he be afraid that he would not be able to get one . `` well , '' say the chief steward , `` if you depend on you strength or dexterity you will never catch a monkey . the only way be to play a trick on one ! '' `` how can I play a trick on a monkey ? I do not know how to do it , '' say the perplexed jelly fish . `` this be what you must do , '' say the wily chief steward . `` when you approach the Island of MonkeysS and meet some of they , you must try to get very friendly with one . tell he that you be a servant of the Dragon King , and invite he to come and visit you and see the Dragon King 's Palace . try and describe to he as vividly as you can the grandeur of the Palace and the wonder of the sea so as to arouse he curiosity and make he long to see it all ! '' `` but how be I to get the monkey here ? you know monkey do not swim ? '' say the reluctant jelly fish . `` you must carry he on you back . what be the use of you shell if you can not do that ! '' say the chief steward . `` Wo not he be very heavy ? '' query kurage again . `` you must not mind that , for you be work for the Dragon King , '' reply the chief steward . `` I will do my best then , '' say the jelly fish , and he swim away from the Palace and start off towards the Monkey Island . swim swiftly he reach he destination in a few hour , and land by a convenient wave upon the shore . on look round he see not far away a big pine-tree with droop branch and on one of those branch be just what he be look for -- a live monkey . `` I be in luck ! '' think the jelly fish . `` now I must flatter the creature and try to entice he to come back with I to the Palace , and my part will be do ! '' so the jelly fish slowly walk towards the pine-tree . in those ancient day the jelly fish have four leg and a hard shell like a tortoise . when he get to the pine-tree he raise he voice and say : `` how do you do , Mr. Monkey ? be not it a lovely day ? '' `` a very fine day , '' answer the monkey from the tree . `` I have never see you in this part of the world before . where have you come from and what be you name ? '' `` my name be kurage or jelly fish . I be one of the servant of the Dragon King . I have hear so much of you beautiful island that I have come on purpose to see it , '' answer the jelly fish . `` I be very glad to see you , '' say the monkey . `` by the bye , '' say the jelly fish , `` have you ever see the Palace of the Dragon King of the Sea where I live ? '' `` I have often hear of it , but I have never see it ! '' answer the monkey . `` then you ought most surely to come . it be a great pity for you to go through life without see it . the beauty of the Palace be beyond all description -- it be certainly to my mind the most lovely place in the world , '' say the jelly fish . `` be it so beautiful as all that ? '' ask the monkey in astonishment . then the jelly fish see he chance , and go on describe to the best of he ability the beauty and grandeur of the Sea King 's Palace , and the wonder of the garden with its curious tree of white , pink and red coral , and the still more curious fruit like great jewel hang on the branch . the monkey grow more and more interested , and as he listen he come down the tree step by step so as not to lose a word of the wonderful story . `` I have get he at last ! '' think the jelly fish , but aloud he say : `` Mr. Monkey . I must now go back . as you have never see the Palace of the Dragon King , will not you avail yourself of this splendid opportunity by come with I ? I shall then be able to act as guide and show you all the sight of the sea , which will be even more wonderful to you -- a land-lubber . '' `` I should love to go , '' say the monkey , `` but how be I to cross the water ! I can not swim , as you surely know ! '' `` there be no difficulty about that . I can carry you on my back . '' `` that will be troubling you too much , '' say the monkey . `` I can do it quite easily . I be stronger than I look , so you need not hesitate , '' say the jelly fish , and take the monkey on he back he step into the sea . `` keep very still , Mr. monkey , '' say the jelly fish . `` you must not fall into the sea ; I be responsible for you safe arrival at the King 's Palace . '' `` please do not go so fast , or I be sure I shall fall off , '' say the monkey . thus they go along , the jelly fish skim through the wave with the monkey sit on he back . when they be about half-way , the jelly fish , who know very little of anatomy , begin to wonder if the monkey have he liver with he or not ! `` Mr. Monkey , tell I , have you such a thing as a liver with you ? '' the monkey be very much surprise at this queer question , and ask what the jelly fish want with a liver . `` that be the most important thing of all , '' say the stupid jelly fish , `` so as soon as I recollect it , I ask you if you have yours with you ? '' `` why be my liver so important to you ? '' ask the monkey . `` oh ! you will learn the reason later , '' say the jelly fish . the monkey grow more and more curious and suspicious , and urge the jelly fish to tell he for what he liver be want , and end up by appeal to he hearer 's feeling by say that he be very trouble at what he have be tell . then the jelly fish , see how anxious the monkey look , be sorry for he , and tell he everything . how the Dragon Queen have fall ill , and how the doctor have say that only the liver of a live monkey would cure she , and how the Dragon King have send he to find one . `` now I have do as I be tell , and as soon as we arrive at the Palace the doctor will want you liver , so I feel sorry for you ! '' say the silly jelly fish . the poor monkey be horrify when he learn all this , and very angry at the trick play upon he . he tremble with fear at the thought of what be in store for he . but the monkey be a clever animal , and he think it the wisest plan not to show any sign of the fear he feel , so he try to calm himself and to think of some way by which he might escape . `` the doctor mean to cut I open and then take my liver out ! why I shall die ! '' think the monkey . at last a bright thought strike he , so he say quite cheerfully to the jelly fish : `` what a pity it be , Mr. Jelly fish , that you do not speak of this before we leave the island ! '' `` if I have tell why I want you to accompany I you would certainly have refuse to come , '' answer the jelly fish . `` you be quite mistaken , '' say the monkey . `` monkey can very well spare a liver or two , especially when it be want for the Dragon Queen of the Sea . if I have only guess of what you be in need . I should have present you with one without wait to be ask . I have several liver . but the greatest pity be , that as you do not speak in time , I have leave all my liver hang on the pine-tree . '' `` Have you leave you liver behind you ? '' ask the jelly fish . `` yes , '' say the cunning monkey , `` during the daytime I usually leave my liver hang up on the branch of a tree , as it be very much in the way when I be climb about from tree to tree . to-day , listen to you interesting conversation , I quite forget it , and leave it behind when I come off with you . if only you have speak in time I should have remember it , and should have bring it along with I ! '' the jelly fish be very disappointed when he hear this , for he believe every word the monkey say . the monkey be of no good without a liver . finally the jelly fish stop and tell the monkey so . `` well , '' say the monkey , `` that be soon remedy . I be really sorry to think of all you trouble ; but if you will only take I back to the place where you find I , I shall soon be able to get my liver . '' the jelly fish do not at all like the idea of go all the way back to the island again ; but the monkey assure he that if he would be so kind as to take he back he would get he very best liver , and bring it with he the next time . thus persuade , the jelly fish turn he course towards the Monkey Island once more . no sooner have the jelly fish reach the shore than the sly monkey land , and get up into the pine-tree where the jelly fish have first see he , he cut several caper amongst the branch with joy at be safe home again , and then look down at the jelly fish say : `` so many thanks for all the trouble you have take ! please present my compliment to the Dragon King on you return ! '' the jelly fish wonder at this speech and the mock tone in which it be utter . then he ask the monkey if it be not he intention to come with he at once after get he liver . the monkey reply laughingly that he could not afford to lose he liver : it be too precious . `` but remember you promise ! '' plead the jelly fish , now very discourage . `` that promise be false , and anyhow it be now break ! '' answer the monkey . then he begin to jeer at the jelly fish and tell he that he have be deceive he the whole time ; that he have no wish to lose he life , which he certainly would have do have he go on to the Sea King 's Palace to the old doctor wait for he , instead of persuade the jelly fish to return under false pretens . `` of course , I will not give you my liver , but come and get it if you can ! '' add the monkey mockingly from the tree . there be nothing for the jelly fish to do now but to repent of he stupidity , and to return to the Dragon King of the Sea and to confess he failure , so he start sadly and slowly to swim back . the last thing he hear as he glide away , leave the island behind he , be the monkey laugh at he . meanwhile the Dragon King , the doctor , the chief steward , and all the servant be wait impatiently for the return of the jelly fish . when they catch sight of he approach the Palace , they hail he with delight . they begin to thank he profusely for all the trouble he have take in go to Monkey Island , and then they ask he where the monkey be . now the day of reckoning have come for the jelly fish . he quake all over as he tell he story . how he have bring the monkey halfway over the sea , and then have stupidly let out the secret of he commission ; how the monkey have deceive he by make he believe that he have leave he liver behind he . the Dragon King 's wrath be great , and he at once give order that the jelly fish be to be severely punish . the punishment be a horrible one . all the bone be to be draw out from he living body , and he be to be beat with stick . the poor jelly fish , humiliate and horrify beyond all word , cry out for pardon . but the Dragon King 's order have to be obey . the servant of the Palace forthwith each bring out a stick and surround the jelly fish , and after pull out he bone they beat he to a flat pulp , and then take he out beyond the Palace gate and throw he into the water . here he be leave to suffer and repent he foolish chattering , and to grow accustomed to he new state of bonelessness . from this story it be evident that in former time the jelly fish once have a shell and bone something like a tortoise , but , ever since the Dragon King 's sentence be carry out on the ancestor of the jelly fish , he descendant have all be soft and boneless just as you see they to-day throw up by the wave high upon the shore of Japan .