the ear-maker and the MOULD-MENDER La Fontain when William go from home -lrb-B- a trader style -rrb-B- : six month he better half he leave with child , a simple , comely , modest , youthful dame , Whose name be Alice ; from Champaign she come . she neighbor Andrew visit now would pay ; with what intention , needless ` tis to say : a master who but rarely spread he net , but , first or last , with full success he meet ; and cunning be the bird that ` scap he snare ; without surrender a feather there . quite raw be Alice ; for he purpose fit ; not overburdened with a store of wit ; of this indeed she could not be accuse , and Cupid 's wiles by she be never use ; Poor lady , all with she be honest part , and naught she know of stratagem or art . HER husband then away , and she alone , this neighbor come , and in a whining tone , to she observed , when compliment be o ` er : -- I be all astonishment , and you deplore , to find that neighbor William 's go from hence , and leave you child 's complete in suspense , which now you bear within , and much I fear , that when ` tis bear you 'll find it want a ear . you look sufficiently the fact proclaim , for many instance I have know the same . good heav ` n ! reply the lady in a fright ; what say you , pray ? -- the infant will not be right ! Shall I be mother to a one-eared child ? and know you no relief that be certain style ? oh yes , there be , rejoin the crafty knave , from such mishap I can the baby save ; yet solemnly I vow , for none but you I would undertake the toilsome job to do . the ill of other , if I may be plain , except you husband 's , never give I pain ; but he I would serve for ever , while I have breath ; to do he good I would e ` en encounter death . now let we see , without more talk or fear , if I know how to forge the bantle ear . remember , cry the wife , to make they like . leave that to I , say he , I 'll justly strike . then he prepare for work ; the dame give way ; not difficult she prove : -- well pleased she lay ; Philosophy be never less require , and Andrew 's process much the fair admire , who , to he work extreme attention pay ; 'Twas now a tendon ; then a fold he make , or cartilage , of which he form enough , and all without complain of the stuff . to-morrow we will polish it , say he : then in perfection soon the whole will be ; and from repeat this so oft , you 'll get as perfect issue as be ever meet . I be much oblige to you , the wife reply , a friend be good in whom we may confide . next day , when tardy Time have mark the hour ; that Andrew hope again to use he pow ` r , he be not plunge in sleep , but briskly fly , he purpose with the charmer to pursue . Said he , all other thing aside I have lay , this ear to finish , and to lend you aid . and I , the dame reply , be on the eve , to send and beg you not the job to leave ; Above stair let we go : -- away they run , and quickly recommence as they begin . the work so oft be smooth , that Alice show some scruple lest the ear he have bestow should do too much , and to the wily wight , she say , so little you the labor slight , ` twere well if ear no more than two appear ; of that , rejoin the other , never fear ; I have guard thoroughly against defect , Mistake like that shall ne'er you sens vex . the ear howe'er be still in hand the same , when from he journey home the husband come . Saluted Alice , who with anxious look , Exclaimed , -- you work how finely you forsake , and , but for neighbor Andrew 's kindness here , we child would incomplete have be -- a ear , I could not let a thing remain like this , and Andrew would not be to friend remiss , but , worthy man , he leave he thriving trade , and for the babe a proper ear have make . the husband , not conceive how he wife , could be so weak and ignorant of life , the circumstance make she fully tell , repeat they o ` er and on each action dwell . enraged at length , a pistol by the bed he seize and swear at once he would shoot she dead . the belle with tear reply , howe'er she would swerve , such cruel treatment never she deserve . she innocence , and simple , gentle way , at length appear he frantick rage to lay . what injury , continue she , be do ? the strictest scrutiny I would not shun ; you goods and money , ev ` ry thing be right ; and Andrew tell I , nothing he would slight ; that you would find much more than you could want ; and this I hope to I you 'll freely grant ; if falsehood I advance , my life I 'll lose ; you equity , I trust , will I excuse . a little cool , then William thus reply , we 'll say no more ; you have be draw aside ; what pass you fancy act for the best , and I 'll consent to put the thing at rest ; to nothing good such altercation tend ; I have but a word : to that attention lend ; Contrive to-morrow that I here entrap this fellow who have cause you sad mishap ; you 'll utter not a word of what I have say ; be secret or at once I 'll strike you dead . adroitly you must act : for instance say ; I be on a second journey go away ; a message or a letter to he send , solicit that he 'll on you attend , that something you have get to let he know ; -- to come , no doubt , the rascal will not be slow ; Amuse he then with converse most absurd , but of the EAR remember , -- not a word ; that be finish now , and nothing can require ; you 'll carefully perform what I desire . Poor innocent ! the point she nicely hit ; fear oft give simpleton a sort of wit . the arch gallant arrive ; the husband come ascend to the room where sit he dame ; much noise he make , he come to announce ; the lover , terrify , begin to bounce ; now here , now there , no shelter could he meet ; between the bed and wall he put he foot , and lay conceal , while William loudly knock ; Fair Alice readily the door unlock , and , point with she hand , inform the spouse , where he might easily he rival rouse . the husband ev ` ry way be arm so well , he four such man as Andrew could repel ; in quest of succor howsoe'er he go : to kill he surely William never mean , but only take a ear , or what the TurksS , those savage beast , cut off from Nature 's work ; which doubtless must be infinitely worse Infernal practice and continual curse . 'twa this he whisper should be Andrew 's doom , when with he easy wife he leave the room ; she nothing durst reply : the door he shut , and we gallant ` gan presently to strut , around and round , believe all be right , and William unacquainted with he plight . the latter have well the project weigh , now change he plan , and other scheme survey ; propose within himself revenge to take , with less parade : -- less noise it then would make , and better fruit the action would produce , than if he be apparently profuse . Said he to Alice , go and seek he wife ; to she relate the whole that cause we strife ; minutely all from first to last detail ; and then the better on she to prevail , to hasten here , you 'll hint that you have fear , that Andrew risk the loss of -- more than ear , for I have punishment severe in view , which greatly she must wish I should not do ; but if a ear-maker , like this , be catch , the worst of chastisement be always seek ; such horrid thing as scarcely can be say : they make the hair to stand upon the head ; that he be upon the point of suff ` ring straight , and only for she presence thing await ; that though she can not all proceedings stay , perhaps she may some portion take away . go , bring she instantly , haste quickly , run ; and , if she come , I 'll pardon what be be do . with joy to Andrew 's house fair Alice go ; the wife to follow she appear content ; quite out of breath , alone she run up stair , and , not perceive he who share she care ; believe he be imprison in a room ; and while with fear she tremble for he doom ; the master -lrb-B- have lay aside he arm -rrb-B- now come to compliment the lady 's charm ; he give the belle a chair , who look most nice : -- say he , ingratitude 's the worst of vice ; to I you husband have be wondrous kind ; so many service have do I find , that , ere you leave this house , I would wish to make a little return , and this you will partake . when I be absent from my loving dear , obligingly he make she babe a ear . the compliment of course I must admire ; Retaliation be what I desire , and I have a thought : -- you child all have get the nose a little short , which be a blot ; a fault within the mould no doubt 's the cause , which I can mend , and any other flaw . the business now let 's execute I pray , on which the dame he take without delay , and place she near where Andrew hide he head , then ` gin to operate as he be lead . the lady patiently he process bear , and bless she star that Andrew 's risk be o ` er that she have thus the dire return receive , and save the man for whom she bosom grieve . so much emotion William seem to feel , no grace he give , but all perform with zeal ; Retaliated ev ` ry way so well , he measure give for measure : -- ell for ell . how true the adage , that revenge be sweet ! the plan he follow clearly be discrete ; for since he wish he honor to repair : -- of any better way I be not aware . the whole without a murmur Andrew view , and thank kind Heav ` n that nothing worse ensue ; one ear most readily he would have lose , could he be certain that would pay the cost . he think ` twould lucky be , could he get out , for all consider , better ` twere no doubt , howe'er ridiculous the thing appear , to have a pair of horn than lose he ear .