146 the Turnip BrothersS Grimm THERE be once two brother who both serve as soldier ; one of they be rich , and the other poor . then the poor one , to escape from he poverty , put off he soldier 's coat , and turn farmer . he dig and hoe he bit of land , and sow it with turnip-seed . the seed come up , and one turnip grow there which become large and vigorous , and visibly grow bigger and bigger , and seem as if it would never stop grow , so that it might have be call the princess of turnip , for never be such a one see before , and never will such a one be see again . at length it be so enormous that by itself it fill a whole cart , and two ox be require to draw it , and the farmer have not the least idea what he be to do with the turnip , or whether it would be a fortune to he or a misfortune . at last he think , `` if thou sellest it , what wilt thou get for it that be of any importance , and if thou eatest it thyself , why , the small turnip would do thee just as much good ; it would be better to take it to the King , and make he a present of it . '' so he place it on a cart , harness two ox , take it to the palace , and present it to the King . `` what strange thing be this ? '' say the King . `` many wonderful thing have come before my eye , but never such a monster as this ! from what seed can this have spring , or be you a luck-child and have meet with it by chance ? '' `` ah , no ! '' say the farmer , `` no luck-child be i. I be a poor soldier , who because he could no longer support himself hang he soldier 's coat on a nail and take to farm land . I have a brother who be rich and well know to you , Lord King , but I , because I have nothing , be forget by every one . '' then the King feel compassion for he , and say , `` Thou shalt be raise from thy poverty , and shalt have such gift from I that thou shalt be equal to thy rich brother . '' then he bestow on he much gold , and land , and meadow , and herd , and make he immensely rich , so that the wealth of the other brother could not be compare with he . when the rich brother hear what the poor one have gain for himself with one single turnip , he envy he , and think in every way how he also could get hold of a similar piece of luck . he would , however , set about it in a much wiser way , and take gold and horse and carry they to the King , and make certain the King would give he a much larger present in return . if he brother have get so much for one turnip , what would he not carry away with he in return for such beautiful thing as these ? the King accept he present , and say he have nothing to give he in return that be more rare and excellent than the great turnip . so the rich man be oblige to put he brother 's turnip in a cart and have it take to he home . when there he do not know on whom to vent he rage and anger , until bad thought come to he , and he resolve to kill he brother . he hire murderer , who be to lie in ambush , and then he go to he brother and say , `` dear brother , I know of a hidden treasure , we will dig it up together , and divide it between we . '' the other agree to this , and accompany he without suspicion . while they be on they way , however , the murderer fall on he , bind he , and would have hang he to a tree . but just as they be do this , loud singing and the sound of a horse 's foot be hear in the distance . on this they heart be fill with terror , and they push they prisoner head first into the sack , hang it on a branch , and take to flight . he , however , work up there until he have make a hole in the sack through which he could put he head . the man who be come by be no other than a travel student , a young fellow who ride on he way through the wood joyously sing he song . when he who be aloft see that someone be pass below he , he cry , `` good day ! you have come at a lucky time . '' the student look round on every side , but do not know whence the voice come . at last he say , `` who call I ? '' then a answer come from the top of the tree , `` raise you eye ; here I sit aloft in the Sack of Wisdom . in a short time have I learn great thing ; compare with this all school be a jest ; in a very short time I shall have learn everything , and shall descend wiser than all other man . I understand the star , and the sign of the Zodiac , and the track of the wind , the sand of the sea , the healing of illness , and the virtue of all herb , bird , and stone . if you be once within it you would feel what noble thing issue forth from the sack of Knowledge . '' the student , when he hear all this , be astonish , and say , `` bless be the hour in which I have find thee ! May not I also enter the sack for a while ? '' he who be above reply as if unwillingly , `` for a short time I will let you get into it , if you reward I and give I good word ; but you must wait a hour longer , for one thing remain which I must learn before I do it . '' when the student have wait a while he become impatient , and beg to be allow to get in at once , he thirst for knowledge be so very great . so he who be above pretend at last to yield , and say , `` in order that I may come forth from the house of knowledge you must let it down by the rope , and then you shall enter it . '' so the student let the sack down , untie it , and set he free , and then cry , `` now draw I up at once , '' and be about to get into the sack . `` halt ! '' say the other , `` that will not do , '' and take he by the head and put he upside down into the sack , fasten it , and draw the disciple of wisdom up the tree by the rope . then he swing he in the air and say , `` how go it with thee , my dear fellow ? Behold , already thou feelest wisdom come , and art gain valuable experience . keep perfectly quiet until thou becomest wiser . '' Thereupon he mount the student 's horse and ride away , but in a hour 's time send some one to let the student out again .