the tale of MR. TOD Beatrix Potter I have make many book about well-behaved people . now , for a change , I be go to make a story about two disagreeable people , call Tommy Brock and Mr. Tod . nobody could call Mr. Tod `` nice . '' the rabbit could not bear he ; they could smell he half a mile off . he be of a wander habit and he have foxey whisker ; they never know where he would be next . one day he be live in a stick - house in the coppice , cause terror to the family of old Mr. Benjamin Bouncer . next day he move into a pollard willow near the lake , frightening the wild duck and the water rat . in winter and early spring he might generally be find in a earth amongst the rock at the top of Bull Banks , under Oatmeal Crag . he have half a dozen house , but he be seldom at home . the house be not always empty when Mr. Tod move OUT ; because sometimes Tommy Brock move in ; -lrb-B- without ask leave -rrb-B- . Tommy Brock be a short bristly fat waddle person with a grin ; he grin all over he face . he be not nice in he habit . he eat wasp nest and frog and worm ; and he waddle about by moonlight , digging thing up . he clothes be very dirty ; and as he sleep in the day-time , he always go to bed in he boot . and the bed which he go to bed in , be generally Mr. Tod 's . now Tommy Brock do occasionally eat rabbit-pie ; but it be only very little young one occasionally , when other food be really scarce . he be friendly with old Mr. Bouncer ; they agree in dislike the wicked otter and Mr. Tod ; they often talk over that painful subject . Old Mr. Bouncer be stricken in year . he sit in the spring sunshine outside the burrow , in a muffler ; smoke a pipe of rabbit tobacco . he live with he son Benjamin Bunny and he daughter-in-law Flopsy , who have a young family . Old Mr. Bouncer be in charge of the family that afternoon , because Benjamin and Flopsy have go out . the little rabbit-babies be just old enough to open they blue eye and kick . they lay in a fluffy bed of rabbit wool and hay , in a shallow burrow , separate from the main rabbit hole . to tell the truth -- old Mr. Bouncer have forget they . he sit in the sun , and converse cordially with Tommy Brock , who be pass through the wood with a sack and a little spud which he use for digging , and some mole trap . he complain bitterly about the scarcity of pheasant ' egg , and accuse Mr. Tod of poach they . and the otter have clear off all the frog while he be asleep in winter -- `` I have not have a good square meal for a fortnight , I be live on pig-nuts . I shall have to turn vegetarian and eat my own tail ! '' say Tommy Brock . it be not much of a joke , but it tickle old Mr. Bouncer ; because Tommy Brock be so fat and stumpy and grinning . so old Mr. Bouncer laugh ; and press Tommy Brock to come inside , to taste a slice of seed-cake and `` a glass of my daughter Flopsy 's cowslip wine . '' Tommy Brock squeeze himself into the rabbit hole with alacrity . then old Mr. Bouncer smoke another pipe , and give Tommy Brock a cabbage leaf cigar which be so very strong that it make Tommy Brock grin more than ever ; and the smoke fill the burrow . Old Mr. Bouncer cough and laugh ; and Tommy Brock puff and grin . and Mr. Bouncer laugh and cough , and shut he eye because of the cabbage smoke ... ... when Flopsy and Benjamin come back -- old Mr. Bouncer wake up . Tommy Brock and all the young rabbit-babies have disappear ! Mr. Bouncer would not confess that he have admit anybody into the rabbit hole . but the smell of badger be undeniable ; and there be round heavy footmark in the sand . he be in disgrace ; Flopsy wring she ear , and slap he . Benjamin Bunny set off at once after Tommy Brock . there be not much difficulty in track he ; he have leave he foot - mark and go slowly up the wind footpath through the wood . here he have root up the moss and wood sorrel . there he have dig quite a deep hole for dog darnel ; and have set a mole trap . a little stream cross the way . Benjamin skip lightly over dry-foot ; the badger 's heavy step show plainly in the mud . the path lead to a part of the thicket where the tree have be clear ; there be leafy oak stump , and a sea of blue hyacinth -- but the smell that make Benjamin stop , be not the smell of flower ! Mr. Tod 's stick house be before he and , for once , Mr. Tod be at home . there be not only a foxey flavor in proof of it -- there be smoke come out of the broken pail that serve as a chimney . Benjamin Bunny sit up , stare ; he whisker twitch . inside the stick house somebody drop a plate , and say something . Benjamin stamp he foot , and bolt . he never stop till he come to the other side of the wood . apparently Tommy Brock have turn the same way . upon the top of the wall , there be again the mark of badger ; and some ravelling of a sack have catch on a briar . Benjamin climb over the wall , into a meadow . he find another mole trap newly set ; he be still upon the track of Tommy Brock . it be get late in the afternoon . other rabbit be come out to enjoy the evening air . one of they in a blue coat by himself , be busily hunting for dandelion . -- `` Cousin Peter ! Peter Rabbit , Peter Rabbit ! '' shout Benjamin Bunny . the blue coated rabbit sit up with pricked ear -- `` whatever be the matter , Cousin Benjamin ? be it a cat ? or John Stoat Ferret ? '' `` no , no , no ! he be bag my family -- Tommy Brock -- in a sack -- have you see he ? '' `` Tommy Brock ? how many , Cousin Benjamin ? '' `` seven , Cousin Peter , and all of they twin ! do he come this way ? please tell I quick ! '' `` yes , yes ; not ten minute since ... he say they be caterpillar ; I do think they be kick rather hard , for caterpillar . '' `` which way ? which way have he go , Cousin Peter ? '' `` he have a sack with something ` live in it ; I watch he set a mole trap . let I use my mind , Cousin Benjamin ; tell I from the beginning . '' Benjamin do so . `` my Uncle Bouncer have display a lamentable want of discretion for he year ; '' say Peter reflectively , `` but there be two hopeful circumstance . you family be alive and kick ; and Tommy Brock have have refreshment . he will probably go to sleep , and keep they for breakfast . '' `` which way ? '' `` Cousin Benjamin , compose yourself . I know very well which way . because Mr. Tod be at home in the stick-house he have go to Mr. Tod 's other house , at the top of Bull Banks . I partly know , because he offer to leave any message at Sister Cottontail 's ; he say he would be pass . '' -lrb-B- Cottontail have marry a black rabbit , and go to live on the hill -rrb-B- . Peter hide he dandelion , and accompany the afflict parent , who be all of a twitter . they cross several field and begin to climb the hill ; the track of Tommy Brock be plainly to be see . he seem to have put down the sack every dozen yard , to rest . `` he must be very puff ; we be close behind he , by the scent . what a nasty person ! '' say Peter . the sunshine be still warm and slant on the hill pasture . half way up , Cottontail be sit in she doorway , with four or five half - grow little rabbit play about she ; one black and the other brown . Cottontail have see Tommy Brock passing in the distance . ask whether she husband be at home she reply that Tommy Brock have rest twice while she watch he . he have nod , and point to the sack , and seem double up with laughing . -- `` come away , Peter ; he will be cook they ; come quicker ! '' say Benjamin Bunny . they climb up and up ; -- `` he be at home ; I see he black ear peep out of the hole . '' `` they live too near the rock to quarrel with they neighbor . come on Cousin Benjamin ! '' when they come near the wood at the top of Bull Banks , they go cautiously . the tree grow amongst heap up rock ; and there , beneath a crag -- Mr. Tod have make one of he home . it be at the top of a steep bank ; the rock and bush overhang it . the rabbit creep up carefully , listen and peep . this house be something between a cave , a prison , and a tumble - down pig-stye . there be a strong door , which be shut and lock . the setting sun make the window pane glow like red flame ; but the kitchen fire be not alight . it be neatly lay with dry stick , as the rabbit could see , when they peep through the window . Benjamin sigh with relief . but there be preparation upon the kitchen table which make he shudder . there be a immense empty pie-dish of blue willow pattern , and a large carve knife and fork , and a chopper . at the other end of the table be a partly unfold tablecloth , a plate , a tumbler , a knife and fork , salt - cellar , mustard and a chair -- in short , preparation for one person 's supper . no person be to be see , and no young rabbit . the kitchen be empty and silent ; the clock have run down . Peter and Benjamin flatten they nose against the window , and stare into the dusk . then they scramble round the rock to the other side of the house . it be damp and smelly , and over - grow with thorn and briar . the rabbit shiver in they shoe . `` oh my poor rabbit baby ! what a dreadful place ; I shall never see they again ! '' sigh Benjamin . they creep up to the bedroom window . it be close and bolt like the kitchen . but there be sign that this window have be recently open ; the cobweb be disturb , and there be fresh dirty footmark upon the window-sill . the room inside be so dark , that at first they could make out nothing ; but they could hear a noise -- a slow deep regular snore grunt . and as they eye become accustomed to the darkness , they perceive that somebody be asleep on Mr. Tod 's bed , curl up under the blanket . -- `` he have go to bed in he boot , '' whisper Peter . Benjamin , who be all of a twitter , pull Peter off the window-sill . Tommy Brock 's snore continue , grunty and regular from Mr. Tod 's bed . nothing could be see of the young family . the sun have set ; a owl begin to hoot in the wood . there be many unpleasant thing lie about , that have much better have be bury ; rabbit bone and skull , and chicken ' leg and other horror . it be a shocking place , and very dark . they go back to the front of the house , and try in every way to move the bolt of the kitchen window . they try to push up a rusty nail between the window sash ; but it be of no use , especially without a light . they sit side by side outside the window , whisper and listen . in half a hour the moon rise over the wood . it shine full and clear and cold , upon the house amongst the rock , and in at the kitchen window . but alas , no little rabbit baby be to be see ! the moonbeam twinkle on the carve knife and the pie dish , and make a path of brightness across the dirty floor . the light show a little door in a wall beside the kitchen fireplace -- a little iron door belong to a brick oven , of that old-fashioned sort that use to be heat with faggot of wood . and presently at the same moment Peter and Benjamin notice that whenever they shake the window -- the little door opposite shake in answer . the young family be alive ; shut up in the oven ! Benjamin be so excited that it be a mercy he do not awake Tommy Brock , whose snore continue solemnly in Mr. Tod 's bed . but there really be not very much comfort in the discovery . they could not open the window ; and although the young family be alive -- the little rabbit be quite incapable of let themselves out ; they be not old enough to crawl . after much whispering , Peter and Benjamin decide to dig a tunnel . they begin to burrow a yard or two lower down the bank . they hope that they might be able to work between the large stone under the house ; the kitchen floor be so dirty that it be impossible to say whether it be make of earth or flag . they dig and dig for hour . they could not tunnel straight on account of stone ; but by the end of the night they be under the kitchen floor . Benjamin be on he back , scratch upward . Peter 's claw be worn down ; he be outside the tunnel , shuffle sand away . he call out that it be morning -- sunrise ; and that the jay be make a noise down below in the wood . Benjamin Bunny come out of the dark tunnel , shake the sand from he ear ; he clean he face with he paw . every minute the sun shine warmer on the top of the hill . in the valley there be a sea of white mist , with golden top of tree show through . again from the field down below in the mist there come the angry cry of a jay -- follow by the sharp yelping bark of a fox ! then those two rabbit lose they head completely . they do the most foolish thing that they could have do . they rush into they short new tunnel , and hide themselves at the top end of it , under Mr. Tod 's kitchen floor . Mr. Tod be come up Bull Banks , and he be in the very worst of temper . first he have be upset by break the plate . it be he own fault ; but it be a china plate , the last of the dinner service that have belong to he grandmother , old Vixen Tod . then the midge have be very bad . and he have fail to catch a hen pheasant on she nest ; and it have contain only five egg , two of they addle . Mr. Tod have have a unsatisfactory night . as usual , when out of humor , he determine to move house . first he try the pollard willow , but it be damp ; and the otter have leave a dead fish near it . Mr. Tod like nobody 's leavings but he own . he make he way up the hill ; he temper be not improve by notice unmistakable mark of badger . no one else grub up the moss so wantonly as Tommy Brock . Mr. Tod slap he stick upon the earth and fume ; he guess where Tommy Brock have go to . he be further annoy by the jay bird which follow he persistently . it fly from tree to tree and scold , warn every rabbit within hearing that either a cat or a fox be come up the plantation . once when it fly scream over he head -- Mr. Tod snap at it , and bark . he approach he house very carefully , with a large rusty key . he sniff and he whisker bristle . the house be lock up , but Mr. Tod have he doubt whether it be empty . he turn the rusty key in the lock ; the rabbit below could hear it . Mr. Tod open the door cautiously and go in . the sight that meet Mr. Tod 's eye in Mr. Tod 's kitchen make Mr. Tod furious . there be Mr. Tod 's chair , and Mr. Tod 's pie dish , and he knife and fork and mustard and salt cellar and he table-cloth that he have leave fold up in the dresser -- all set out for supper -lrb-B- or breakfast -rrb-B- -- without doubt for that odious Tommy Brock . there be a smell of fresh earth and dirty badger , which fortunately overpower all smell of rabbit . but what absorb Mr. Tod 's attention be a noise -- a deep slow regular snore grunting noise , come from he own bed . he peep through the hinge of the half-open bedroom door . then he turn and come out of the house in a hurry . he whisker bristle and he coat-collar stand on end with rage . for the next twenty minute Mr. Tod keep creep cautiously into the house , and retreat hurriedly out again . by degree he venture further in -- right into the bedroom . when he be outside the house , he scratch up the earth with fury . but when he be inside -- he do not like the look of Tommy Brock 's tooth . he be lie on he back with he mouth open , grin from ear to ear . he snore peacefully and regularly ; but one eye be not perfectly shut . Mr. Tod come in and out of the bedroom . twice he bring in he walking-stick , and once he bring in the coal-scuttle . but he think better of it , and take they away . when he come back after remove the coal-scuttle , Tommy Brock be lie a little more sideways ; but he seem even sounder asleep . he be a incurably indolent person ; he be not in the least afraid of Mr. Tod ; he be simply too lazy and comfortable to move . Mr. Tod come back yet again into the bedroom with a clothes line . he stand a minute watch Tommy Brock and listen attentively to the snore . they be very loud indeed , but seem quite natural . Mr. Tod turn he back towards the bed , and undo the window . it creak ; he turn round with a jump . Tommy Brock , who have open one eye -- shut it hastily . the snore continue . Mr. Tod 's proceedings be peculiar , and rather uneasy , -lrb-B- because the bed be between the window and the door of the bedroom -rrb-B- . he open the window a little way , and push out the greater part of the clothes line on to the window sill . the rest of the line , with a hook at the end , remain in he hand . Tommy Brock snore conscientiously . Mr. Tod stand and look at he for a minute ; then he leave the room again . Tommy Brock open both eye , and look at the rope and grin . there be a noise outside the window . Tommy Brock shut he eye in a hurry . Mr. Tod have go out at the front door , and round to the back of the house . on the way , he stumble over the rabbit burrow . if he have have any idea who be inside it , he would have pull they out quickly . he foot go through the tunnel nearly upon the top of Peter Rabbit and Benjamin , but fortunately he think that it be some more of Tommy Brock 's work . he take up the coil of line from the sill , listen for a moment , and then tie the rope to a tree . Tommy Brock watch he with one eye , through the window . he be puzzle . Mr. Tod fetch a large heavy pailful of water from the spring , and stagger with it through the kitchen into he bedroom . Tommy Brock snore industriously , with rather a snort . Mr. Tod put down the pail beside the bed , take up the end of rope with the hook -- hesitate , and look at Tommy Brock . the snore be almost apoplectic ; but the grin be not quite so big . Mr. Tod gingerly mount a chair by the head of the bedstead . he leg be dangerously near to Tommy Brock 's tooth . he reach up and put the end of rope , with the hook , over the head of the tester bed , where the curtain ought to hang . -lrb-B- Mr. Tod 's curtain be fold up , and put away , owe to the house be unoccupied . so be the counterpane . Tommy Brock be cover with a blanket only . -rrb-B- Mr. Tod standing on the unsteady chair look down upon he attentively ; he really be a first prize sound sleeper ! it seem as though nothing would waken he -- not even the flap rope across the bed . Mr. Tod descend safely from the chair , and endeavor to get up again with the pail of water . he intend to hang it from the hook , dangle over the head of Tommy Brock , in order to make a sort of shower-bath , work by a string , through the window . but naturally be a thin-legged person -lrb-B- though vindictive and sandy whisker -rrb-B- -- he be quite unable to lift the heavy weight to the level of the hook and rope . he very nearly overbalance himself . the snore become more and more apoplectic . one of Tommy Brock 's hind leg twitch under the blanket , but still he sleep on peacefully . Mr. Tod and the pail descend from the chair without accident . after considerable thought , he empty the water into a wash-basin and jug . the empty pail be not too heavy for he ; he sling it up wobble over the head of Tommy Brock . surely there never be such a sleeper ! Mr. Tod get up and down , down and up on the chair . as he could not lift the whole pailful of water at once , he fetch a milk jug , and ladle quart of water into the pail by degree . the pail get fuller and fuller , and swing like a pendulum . occasionally a drop splash over ; but still Tommy Brock snore regularly and never move , -- except one eye . at last Mr. Tod 's preparation be complete . the pail be full of water ; the rope be tightly strain over the top of the bed , and across the window sill to the tree outside . `` it will make a great mess in my bedroom ; but I could never sleep in that bed again without a spring cleaning of some sort , '' say Mr. Tod . Mr. Tod take a last look at the badger and softly leave the room . he go out of the house , shut the front door . the rabbit hear he footstep over the tunnel . he run round behind the house , intend to undo the rope in order to let fall the pailful of water upon Tommy Brock -- `` I will wake he up with a unpleasant surprise , '' say Mr. Tod . the moment he have go , Tommy Brock get up in a hurry ; he roll Mr. Tod 's dressing-gown into a bundle , put it into the bed beneath the pail of water instead of himself , and leave the room also -- grin immensely . he go into the kitchen , light the fire and boil the kettle ; for the moment he do not trouble himself to cook the baby rabbit . when Mr. Tod get to the tree , he find that the weight and strain have drag the knot so tight that it be past untying . he be oblige to gnaw it with he tooth . he chew and gnaw for more than twenty minute . at last the rope give way with such a sudden jerk that it nearly pull he tooth out , and quite knock he over backwards . inside the house there be a great crash and splash , and the noise of a pail rolling over and over . but no scream . Mr. Tod be mystify ; he sit quite still , and listen attentively . then he peep in at the window . the water be drip from the bed , the pail have roll into a corner . in the middle of the bed under the blanket , be a wet flatten something -- much ding in , in the middle where the pail have catch it -lrb-B- as it be across the tummy -rrb-B- . its head be cover by the wet blanket and it be NOT SNORING ANY LONGER . there be nothing stir , and no sound except the drip , drop , drop drip of water trickle from the mattress . Mr. Tod watch it for half a hour ; he eye glisten . then he cut a caper , and become so bold that he even tap at the window ; but the bundle never move . Yes -- there be no doubt about it -- it have turn out even better than he have plan ; the pail have hit poor old Tommy Brock , and kill he dead ! `` I will bury that nasty person in the hole which he have dig . I will bring my bedding out , and dry it in the sun , '' say Mr. Tod . `` I will wash the tablecloth and spread it on the grass in the sun to bleach . and the blanket must be hang up in the wind ; and the bed must be thoroughly disinfect , and air with a warming-pan ; and warm with a hot-water bottle . '' `` I will get soft soap , and monkey soap , and all sort of soap ; and soda and scrub brush ; and persian powder ; and carbolic to remove the smell . I must have a disinfecting . perhaps I may have to burn sulphur . '' he hurry round the house to get a shovel from the kitchen -- `` First I will arrange the hole -- then I will drag out that person in the blanket ... '' he open the door ... Tommy Brock be sit at Mr. Tod 's kitchen table , pour out tea from Mr. Tod 's tea-pot into Mr. Tod 's tea-cup . he be quite dry himself and grin ; and he throw the cup of scald tea all over Mr. Tod . then Mr. Tod rush upon Tommy Brock , and Tommy Brock grapple with Mr. Tod amongst the broken crockery , and there be a terrific battle all over the kitchen . to the rabbit underneath it sound as if the floor would give way at each crash of fall furniture . they creep out of they tunnel , and hang about amongst the rock and bush , listen anxiously . inside the house the racket be fearful . the rabbit baby in the oven wake up tremble ; perhaps it be fortunate they be shut up inside . everything be upset except the kitchen table . and everything be break , except the mantelpiece and the kitchen fender . the crockery be smash to atom . the chair be break , and the window , and the clock fall with a crash , and there be handful of Mr. Tod 's sandy whisker . the vase fall off the mantelpiece , the canister fall off the shelf ; the kettle fall off the hob . Tommy Brock put he foot in a jar of raspberry jam . and the boil water out of the kettle fall upon the tail of Mr. Tod . when the kettle fall , Tommy Brock , who be still grinning , happen to be uppermost ; and he roll Mr. Tod over and over like a log , out at the door . then the snarl and worry go on outside ; and they roll over the bank , and down hill , bump over the rock . there will never be any love lose between Tommy Brock and Mr. Tod . as soon as the coast be clear Peter Rabbit and Benjamin Bunny come out of the bush -- `` now for it ! Run in , Cousin Benjamin ! Run in and get they while I watch at the door . '' but Benjamin be frighten -- `` oh ; oh ! they be come back ! '' `` no they be not . '' `` yes they be ! '' `` what dreadful bad language ! I think they have fall down the stone quarry . '' still Benjamin hesitate , and Peter keep push he -- `` be quick , it be all right . shut the oven door , Cousin Benjamin , so that he will not miss they . '' decidedly there be lively doings in Mr. Tod 's kitchen ! at home in the rabbit hole , thing have not be quite comfortable . after quarrel at supper , Flopsy and old Mr. Bouncer have pass a sleepless night , and quarrel again at breakfast . Old Mr. Bouncer could no longer deny that he have invite company into the rabbit hole ; but he refuse to reply to the question and reproach of Flopsy . the day pass heavily . Old Mr. Bouncer , very sulky , be huddle up in a corner , barricade with a chair . Flopsy have take away he pipe and hide the tobacco . she have be have a complete turn out and spring - cleaning , to relieve she feeling . she have just finish . Old Mr. Bouncer , behind he chair , be wonder anxiously what she would do next . in Mr. Tod 's kitchen , amongst the wreckage , Benjamin Bunny pick he way to the oven nervously , through a thick cloud of dust . he open the oven door , feel inside , and find something warm and wriggle . he lift it out carefully , and rejoin Peter Rabbit . `` I have get they ! can we get away ? Shall we hide , Cousin Peter ? '' Peter prick he ear ; distant sound of fight still echo in the wood . five minute afterwards two breathless rabbit come scutter away down Bull Banks , half carry half drag a sack between they , bumpetty bump over the grass . they reach home safely and burst into the rabbit hole . Great be old Mr. Bouncer 's relief and Flopsy 's joy when Peter and Benjamin arrive in triumph with the young family . the rabbit - baby be rather tumble and very hungry ; they be feed and put to bed . they soon recover . a long new pipe and a fresh supply of rabbit tobacco be present to Mr. Bouncer . he be rather upon he dignity ; but he accept . Old Mr. Bouncer be forgive , and they all have dinner . then Peter and Benjamin tell they story -- but they have not wait long enough to be able to tell the end of the battle between Tommy Brock and Mr. Tod . the end