the sagacious monkey and the BOAR . Japanese Writer Long , long ago , there live in the province of Shinshin in Japan , a travel monkey-man , who earn he living by take round a monkey and show off the animal 's trick . one evening the man come home in a very bad temper and tell he wife to send for the butcher the next morning . the wife be very bewildered and ask she husband : `` why do you wish I to send for the butcher ? '' `` it be no use take that monkey round any longer , he be too old and forget he trick . I beat he with my stick all I know how , but he will not dance properly . I must now sell he to the butcher and make what money out of he I can . there be nothing else to be do . '' the woman feel very sorry for the poor little animal , and plead for she husband to spare the monkey , but she plead be all in vain , the man be determine to sell he to the butcher . now the monkey be in the next room and overheard ever word of the conversation . he soon understand that he be to be kill , and he say to himself : `` Barbarous , indeed , be my master ! here I have serve he faithfully for year , and instead of allow I to end my day comfortably and in peace , he be go to let I be cut up by the butcher , and my poor body be to be roasted and stewed and eat ? woe be I ! what be I to do . ah ! a bright thought have strike I ! there be , I know , a wild bear living in the forest near by . I have often hear tell of he wisdom . perhaps if I go to he and tell he the strait I be in he will give I he counsel . I will go and try . '' there be no time to lose . the monkey slip out of the house and run as quickly as he could to the forest to find the boar . the boar be at home , and the monkey begin he tale of woe at once . `` good Mr. Boar , I have hear of you excellent wisdom . I be in great trouble , you alone can help I . I have grow old in the service of my master , and because I can not dance properly now he intend to sell I to the butcher . what do you advise I to do ? I know how clever you be ! '' the boar be please at the flattery and determine to help the monkey . he think for a little while and then say : `` have not you master a baby ? '' `` oh , yes , '' say the monkey , `` he have one infant son . '' `` do not it lie by the door in the morning when you mistress begin the work of the day ? well , I will come round early and when I see my opportunity I will seize the child and run off with it . '' `` what then ? '' say the monkey . `` why the mother will be in a tremendous scare , and before you master and mistress know what to do , you must run after I and rescue the child and take it home safely to its parent , and you will see that when the butcher come they will not have the heart to sell you . '' the monkey thank the boar many time and then go home . he do not sleep much that night , as you may imagine , for thinking of the morrow . he life depend on whether the boar 's plan succeed or not . he be the first up , wait anxiously for what be to happen . it seem to he a very long time before he master 's wife begin to move about and open the shutter to let in the light of day . then all happen as the boar have plan . the mother place she child near the porch as usual while she tidy up the house and get she breakfast ready . the child be croon happily in the morning sunlight , dab on the mat at the play of light and shadow . suddenly there be a noise in the porch and a loud cry from the child . the mother run out from the kitchen to the spot , only just in time to see the boar disappear through the gate with she child in its clutch . she fling out she hand with a loud cry of despair and rush into the inner room where she husband be still sleep soundly . he sit up slowly and rub he eye , and crossly demand what he wife be make all that noise about . by the time that the man be alive to what have happen , and they both get outside the gate , the boar have get well away , but they see the monkey run after the thief as hard as he leg would carry he . both the man and wife be move to admiration at the plucky conduct of the sagacious monkey , and they gratitude know no bound when the faithful monkey bring the child safely back to they arm . `` there ! '' say the wife . `` this be the animal you want to kill -- if the monkey have not be here we should have lose we child forever . '' `` you be right , wife , for once , '' say the man as he carry the child into the house . `` you may send the butcher back when he come , and now give we all a good breakfast and the monkey too . '' when the butcher arrive he be send away with a order for some boar 's meat for the evening dinner , and the monkey be pet and live the rest of he day in peace , nor do he master ever strike he again .