113 the two KingsS ' Children BrothersS Grimm there be once on a time a king who have a little boy of whom it have be foretell that he should be kill by a stag when he be sixteen year of age , and when he have reach that age the huntsman once go hunting with he . in the forest , the King 's son be separate from the other , and all at once he see a great stag which he want to shoot , but could not hit . at length he chase the stag so far that they be quite out of the forest , and then suddenly a great tall man be stand there instead of the stag , and say , `` it be well that I have thee . I have already ruin six pair of glass skate with run after thee , and have not be able to get thee . '' then he take the King 's son with he , and drag he through a great lake to a great palace , and then he have to sit down to table with he and eat something . when they have eat something together the King say , `` I have three daughter , thou must keep watch over the eldest for one night , from nine in the evening till six in the morning , and every time the clock strike , I will come myself and call , and if thou then givest I no answer , to-morrow morning thou shall be put to death , but if thou always givest I a answer , thou shalt have she to wife . '' when the young folk go to the bed-room there stand a stone image of St. Christopher , and the King 's daughter say to it , `` my father will come at nine o'clock , and every hour till it strike three ; when he call , give he a answer instead of the King 's son . '' then the stone image of St. Christopher nod its head quite quickly , and then more and more slowly till at last it stand still . the next morning the King say to he , `` Thou hast do the business well , but I can not give my daughter away . Thou must now watch a night by my second daughter , and then I will consider with myself , whether thou canst have my eldest daughter to wife , but I shall come every hour myself , and when I call thee , answer I , and if I call thee and thou dost not reply , thy blood shall flow . '' then they both go into the sleeping-room , and there stand a still larger stone image of St. Christopher , and the King 's daughter say to it , `` if my father call , do you answer he . '' then the great stone image of St. Christopher again nod its head quite quickly and then more and more slowly , until at last it stand still again . and the King 's son lay down on the threshold , put he hand under he head and sleep . the next morning the King say to he , `` Thou hast do the business really well , but I can not give my daughter away ; thou must now watch a night by the youngest princess , and then I will consider with myself whether thou canst have my second daughter to wife , but I shall come every hour myself , and when I call thee answer I , and if I call thee and thou answerest not , thy blood shall flow for I . '' then they once more go to the sleeping-room together , and there be a much greater and much taller image of St. Christopher than the two first have be . the King 's daughter say to it , `` when my father call , do thou answer . '' then the great tall stone image of St. Christopher nod quite half a hour with its head , until at length the head stand still again . and the King 's son lay himself down on the threshold of the door and sleep . the next morning the King say , `` Thou hast indeed watch well , but I can not give thee my daughter now ; I have a great forest , if thou cuttest it down for I between six o'clock this morning and six at night , I will think about it . '' then he give he a glass axe , a glass wedge , and a glass mallet . when he get into the wood , he begin at once to cut , but the axe break in two , then he take the wedge , and strike it once with the mallet , and it become as short and as small as sand . then he be much trouble and believe he would have to die , and sit down and weep . now when it be noon the King say , `` one of you girl must take he something to eat . '' `` no , '' say the two eldest , `` we will not take it to he ; the one by whom he last watch , can take he something . '' then the youngest be force to go and take he something to eat . when she get into the forest , she ask he how he be get on ? `` oh , '' say he , `` I be get on very badly . '' then she say he be to come and just eat a little . `` Nay , '' say he , `` I can not do that , I shall still have to die , so I will eat no more . '' then she speak so kindly to he and beg he just to try , that he come and eat something . when he have eat something she say , `` I will comb thy hair a while , and then thou wilt feel happier . '' so she comb he hair , and he become weary and fall asleep , and then she take she handkerchief and make a knot in it , and strike it three time on the earth , and say , `` earth-workers , come forth . '' in a moment , number of little earth-men come forth , and ask what the King 's daughter command ? then say she , `` in three hour ' time the great forest must be cut down , and the whole of the wood lay in heap . '' so the little earth-men go about and get together the whole of they kindr to help they with the work . they begin at once , and when the three hour be over , all be do , and they come back to the King 's daughter and tell she so . then she take she white handkerchief again and say , `` earth-workers , go home . '' on this they all disappear . when the King 's son awake , he be delighted , and she say , `` come home when it have strike six o'clock . '' he do as she tell he , and then the King ask , `` Hast thou make away with the forest ? '' `` yes , '' say the King 's son . when they be sit at table , the King say , `` I can not yet give thee my daughter to wife , thou must still do something more for she sake . '' so he ask what it be to be , then ? `` I have a great fish-pond , '' say the King . `` Thou must go to it to-morrow morning and clear it of all mud until it be as bright as a mirror , and fill it with every kind of fish . '' the next morning the King give he a glass shovel and say , `` the fish-pond must be do by six o'clock . '' so he go away , and when he come to the fish-pond he stick he shovel in the mud and it break in two , then he stick he hoe in the mud , and break it also . then he be much trouble . at noon the youngest daughter bring he something to eat , and ask he how he be get on ? so the King 's son say everything be go very ill with he , and he would certainly have to lose he head . `` my tool have break to piece again . '' `` oh , '' say she , `` thou must just come and eat something , and then thou wilt be in another frame of mind . '' `` no , '' say he , `` I can not eat , I be far too unhappy for that ! '' then she give he many good word until at last he come and eat something . then she comb he hair again , and he fall asleep , so once more she take she handkerchief , tie a knot in it , and strike the ground thrice with the knot , and say , `` earth-workers , come forth . '' in a moment a great many little earth-men come and ask what she desire , and she tell they that in three hour ' time , they must have the fish-pond entirely clean out , and it must be so clear that people could see themselves reflect in it , and every kind of fish must be in it . the little earth-men go away and summon all they kindr to help they , and in two hour it be do . then they return to she and say , `` we have do as thou hast command . '' the King 's daughter take the handkerchief and once more strike thrice on the ground with it , and say , `` earth-workers , go home again . '' then they all go away . when the King 's son awake the fish-pond be do . then the King 's daughter go away also , and tell he that when it be six he be to come to the house . when he arrive at the house the King ask , `` hast thou get the fish-pond do ? '' `` yes , '' say the King 's son . that be very good . when they be again sit at table the King say , `` Thou hast certainly do the fish-pond , but I can not give thee my daughter yet ; thou must just do one thing more . '' `` what be that , then ? '' ask the King 's son . the King say he have a great mountain on which there be nothing but briar which must all be cut down , and at the top of it the youth must build up a great castle , which must be as strong as could be conceive , and all the furniture and fitting belong to a castle must be inside it . and when he arise next morning the King give he a glass axe and a glass gimlet with he , and he be to have all do by six o'clock . as he be cut down the first briar with the axe , it break off short , and so small that the piece fly all round about , and he could not use the gimlet either . then he be quite miserable , and wait for he dearest to see if she would not come and help he in he need . when it be mid-day she come and bring he something to eat . he go to meet she and tell she all , and eat something , and let she comb he hair and fall asleep . then she once more take the knot and strike the earth with it , and say , `` earth-workers , come forth ! '' then come once again number of earth-men , and ask what she desire be . then say she , `` in the space of three hour they must cut down the whole of the briar , and a castle must be build on the top of the mountain that must be as strong as any one could conceive , and all the furniture that pertain to a castle must be inside it . '' they go away , and summon they kindr to help they and when the time be come , all be ready . then they come to the King 's daughter and tell she so , and the King 's daughter take she handkerchief and strike thrice on the earth with it , and say , `` earth-workers , go home , '' on which they all disappear . when therefore the King 's son awake and see everything do , he be as happy as a bird in air . when it have strike six , they go home together . then say the King , `` be the castle ready ? '' `` yes , '' say the King 's son . when they sit down to table , the King say , `` I can not give away my youngest daughter until the two eldest be marry . '' then the King 's son and the King 's daughter be quite troubled , and the King 's son have no idea what to do . but he go by night to the King 's daughter and run away with she . when they have get a little distance away , the King 's daughter peep round and see she father behind she . `` oh , '' say she , `` what be we to do ? my father be behind we , and will take we back with he . I will at once change thee into a briar , and myself into a rose , and I will shelter myself in the midst of the bush . '' when the father reach the place , there stand a briar with one rise on it , then he be about to gather the rose , when the thorn come and prick he finger so that he be force to go home again . he wife ask why he have not bring they daughter back with he ? so he say he have nearly get up to she , but that all at once he have lose sight of she , and a briar with one rise be grow on the spot . then say the Queen , `` if thou hadst but gather the rose , the briar would have be force to come too . '' so he go back again to fetch the rose , but in the meantime the two be already far over the plain , and the King run after they . then the daughter once more look round and see she father come , and say , `` oh , what shall we do now ? I will instantly change thee into a church and myself into a priest , and I will stand up in the pulpit , and preach . '' when the King get to the place , there stand a church , and in the pulpit be a priest preaching . so he listen to the sermon , and then go home again . then the Queen ask why he have not bring they daughter with he , and he say , `` Nay , I run a long time after she , and just as I think I should soon overtake she , a church be stand there and a priest be in the pulpit preaching . '' `` Thou shouldst just have bring the priest , '' say he wife , `` and then the church would soon have come . it be no use to send thee , I must go there myself . '' when she have walk for some time , and could see the two in the distance , the King 's daughter peep round and see she mother come , and say , `` now we be undo , for my mother be come herself : I will immediately change thee into a fish-pond and myself into a fish . when the mother come to the place , there be a large fish-pond , and in the midst of it a fish be leap about and peep out of the water , and it be quite merry . she want to catch the fish , but she could not . then she be very angry , and drink up the whole pond in order to catch the fish , but it make she so ill that she be force to vomit , and vomit the whole pond out again . then she cry , `` I see very well that nothing can be do now , '' and say that now they might come back to she . then the King 's daughter go back again , and the Queen give she daughter three walnut , and say , `` with these thou canst help thyself when thou art in thy greatest need . '' so the young folk go once more away together . and when they have walk quite ten mile , they arrive at the castle from whence the King 's son come , and close by it be a village . when they reach it , the King 's son say , `` Stay here , my dearest , I will just go to the castle , and then will I come with a carriage and with attendant to fetch thee . '' when he get to the castle they all rejoice greatly at have the King 's son back again , and he tell they he have a bride who be now in the village , and they must go with the carriage to fetch she . then they harness the horse at once , and many attendant seat themselves outside the carriage . when the King 's son be about to get in , he mother give he a kiss , and he forget everything which have happen , and also what he be about to do . on this he mother order the horse to be take out of the carriage again , and everyone go back into the house . but the maiden sit in the village and watch and watch , and think he would come and fetch she , but no one come . then the King 's daughter take service in the mill which belong to the castle , and be oblige to sit by the pond every afternoon and clean the tub . and the Queen come one day on foot from the castle , and go walking by the pond , and see the well-grown maiden sit there , and say , `` what a fine strong girl that be ! she please I well ! '' then she and all with she look at the maid , but no one know she . so a long time pass by during which the maiden serve the miller honorably and faithfully . in the meantime , the Queen have seek a wife for she son , who come from quite a distant part of the world . when the bride come , they be at once to be marry . and many people hurry together , all of whom want to see everything . then the girl say to the miller that he might be so good as to give she leave to go also . so the miller say , `` yes , do go there . '' when she be about to go , she open one of the three walnut , and a beautiful dress lay inside it . she put it on , and go into the church and stand by the altar . suddenly come the bride and bridegroom , and seat themselves before the altar , and when the priest be just go to bless they , the bride peep half round and see the maiden standing there . then she stand up again , and say she would not be give away until she also have as beautiful a dress as that lady there . so they go back to the house again , and send to ask the lady if she would sell that dress . no , she would not sell it , but the bride might perhaps earn it . then the bride ask she how she be to do this ? then the maiden say if she might sleep one night outside the King 's son 's door , the bride might have what she want . so the bride say , `` yes , she be willing to do that . '' but the servant be order to give the King 's son a sleeping-drink , and then the maiden lay herself down on the threshold and lament all night long . she have have the forest cut down for he , she have have the fish-pond clean out for he , she have have the castle build for he , she have change he into a briar , and then into a church , and at last into a fish-pond , and yet he have forget she so quickly . the King 's son do not hear one word of it , but the servant have be awaken , and have listen to it , and have not know what it could mean . the next morning when they be all up , the bride put on the dress , and go away to the church with the bridegroom . in the meantime the maiden open the second walnut , and a still more beautiful dress be inside it . she put it on , and go and stand by the altar in the church , and everything happen as it have happen the time before . and the maiden again lay all night on the threshold which lead to the chamber of the King 's son , and the servant be once more to give he a sleeping-drink . the servant , however , go to he and give he something to keep he awake , and then the King 's son go to bed , and the miller 's maiden bemoan herself as before on the threshold of the door , and tell of all that she have do . all this the King 's son hear , and be sore troubled , and what be past come back to he . then he want to go to she , but he mother have lock the door . the next morning , however , he go at once to he beloved , and tell she everything which have happen to he , and pray she not to be angry with he for have forget she . then the King 's daughter open the third walnut , and within it be a still more magnificent dress , which she put on , and go with she bridegroom to church , and number of child come who give they flower , and offer they gay ribbon to bind about they foot , and they be bless by the priest , and have a merry wedding . but the false mother and the bride have to depart . and the mouth of the person who last tell all this be still warm .