the SOOTHSAYER be SON Indian Writer A soothsayer when on he deathbed write out the horoscope of he second son , whose name be Gangazara , and bequeath it to he as he only property , leave the whole of he estate to he eldest son . the second son think over the horoscope , and say to himself : `` Alas ! be I bear to this only in the world ? the saying of my father never fail . I have see they prove true to the last word while he be live ; and how have he fix my horoscope ! ` FROM MY BIRTH poverty ! ' nor be that my only fate . ` for TEN year , IMPRISONMENT ' -- a fate harder than poverty ; and what come next ? ` death on the sea-shore ' ; which mean that I must die away from home , far from friend and relative on a sea-coast . now come the most curious part of the horoscope , that I be to ` have SOME HAPPINESS AFTERWARDSS ! ' what this happiness be , be a enigma to I . '' thus think he , and after all the funeral obsequy of he father be over , take leave of he elder brother , and start for Benares . he go by the middle of the Deccan , avoid both the coast , and go on journey and journey for week and month , till at last he reach the Vindhya mountain . while pass that desert he have to journey for a couple of day through a sandy plain , with no sign of life or vegetation . the little store of provision with which he be provide for a couple of day , at last be exhaust . the chombu , which he carry always full , fill it with the sweet water from the flowing rivulet or plenteous tank , he have exhaust in the heat of the desert . there be not a morsel in he hand to eat ; nor a drop of water to drink . turn he eye wherever he might he find a vast desert , out of which he see no means of escape . still he think within himself , `` surely my father 's prophecy never prove untrue . I must survive this calamity to find my death on some sea-coast . '' so think he , and this thought give he strength of mind to walk fast and try to find a drop of water somewhere to slake he dry throat . at last he succeed ; heaven throw in he way a ruin well . he think he could collect some water if he let down he chombu with the string that he always carry noose to the neck of it . accordingly he let it down ; it go some way and stop , and the following word come from the well : `` oh , relieve I ! I be the king of tiger , die here of hunger . for the last three day I have have nothing . Fortune have send you here . if you assist I now you will find a sure help in I throughout you life . do not think that I be a beast of prey . when you have become my deliverer I will never touch you . Pray , kindly lift I up . '' Gangazara think : `` Shall I take he out or not ? if I take he out he may make I the first morsel of he hungry mouth . no ; that he will not do . for my father 's prophecy never come untrue . I must die on a sea coast , and not by a tiger . '' thus think , he ask the tiger-king to hold tight to the vessel , which he accordingly do , and he lift he up slowly . the tiger reach the top of the well and feel himself on safe ground . true to he word , he do no harm to Gangazara . on the other hand , he walk round he patron three time , and standing before he , humbly speak the following word : `` my life-giver , my benefactor ! I shall never forget this day , when I regain my life through you kind hand . in return for this kind assistance I pledge my oath to stand by you in all calamity . Whenever you be in any difficulty just think of I . I be there with you ready to oblige you by all the means that I can . to tell you briefly how I come in here : three day ago I be roam in yonder forest , when I see a goldsmith pass through it . I chase he . he , find it impossible to escape my claw , jump into this well , and be live to this moment in the very bottom of it . I also jump in , but find myself on the first ledge of the well ; he be on the last and fourth ledge . in the second life a serpent half-famished with hunger . on the third lie a rat , also half-famished , and when you again begin to draw water these may request you first to release they . in the same way the goldsmith also may ask you . I beg you , as you bosom friend , never assist that wretched man , though he be you relation as a human being . goldsmith be never to be trust . you can place more faith in I , a tiger , though I feast sometimes upon man , in a serpent , whose sting make you blood cold the very next moment , or in a rat , which do a thousand piece of mischief in you house . but never trust a goldsmith . do not release he ; and if you do , you shall surely repent of it one day or other . '' thus advise , the hungry tiger go away without wait for a answer . Gangazara think several time of the eloquent way in which the tiger speak , and admire he fluency of speech . but still he thirst be not quench . so he let down he vessel again , which be now catch hold of by the serpent , who address he thus : `` oh , my protector ! lift I up . I be the king of serpent , and the son of Adisesha , who be now pine away in agony for my disappearance . Release I now . I shall ever remain you servant , remember you assistance , and help you throughout life in all possible way . Oblige I : I be die . '' Gangazara , call again to mind the `` death on the sea-shore '' of the prophecy lift he up . he , like the tiger-king , walk round he thrice , and prostrate himself before he speak thus : `` oh , my life-giver , my father , for so I must call you , as you have give I another birth . I be three day ago bask myself in the morning sun , when I see a rat run before I . I chase he . he fall into this well . I follow he , but instead of fall on the third storey where he be now lie , I fall into the second . I be go away now to see my father . Whenever you be in any difficulty just think of I . I will be there by you side to assist you by all possible means . '' so say , the Nagaraja glide away in zigzag movement , and be out of sight in a moment . the poor son of the Soothsayer , who be now almost die of thirst , let down he vessel for a third time . the rat catch hold of it , and without discuss he lift up the poor animal at once . but it would not go away without show its gratitude : `` oh , life of my life ! my benefactor ! I be the king of rat . Whenever you be in any calamity just think of I . I will come to you , and assist you . my keen ear overhear all that the tiger-king tell you about the goldsmith , who be in the fourth storey . it be nothing but a sad truth that goldsmith ought never to be trust . therefore , never assist he as you have do to we all . and if you do , you will suffer for it . I be hungry ; let I go for the present . '' thus take leave of he benefactor , the rat , too , run away . Gangazara for a while think upon the repeated advice give by the three animal about release the goldsmith : `` what wrong would there be in my assist he ? why should I not release he also ? '' so think to himself , Gangazara let down the vessel again . the goldsmith catch hold of it , and demand help . the Soothsayer 's son have no time to lose ; he be himself die of thirst . therefore he lift the goldsmith up , who now begin he story . `` stop for a while , '' say Gangazara , and after quench he thirst by let down he vessel for the fifth time , still fear that some one might remain in the well and demand he assistance , he listen to the goldsmith , who begin as follow : `` My dear friend , my protector , what a deal of nonsense these brute have be talk to you about I ; I be glad you have not follow they advice . I be just now die of hunger . permit I to go away . my name be Manikkasari . I live in the East main street of Ujjaini , which be twenty ka to the south of this place , and so lie on you way when you return from BenaresS . do not forget to come to I and receive my kind remembrance of you assistance , on you way back to you country . '' so say , the goldsmith take he leave , and Gangazara also pursue he way north after the above adventure . he reach Benares , and live there for more than ten year , and quite forget the tiger , serpent , rat , and goldsmith . after ten year of religious life , thought of home and of he brother rush into he mind . `` I have secure enough merit now by my religious observance . let I return home . '' thus think Gangazara within himself , and very soon he be on he way back to he country . remember the prophecy of he father he return by the same way by which he go to Benares ten year before . while thus retrace he step he reach the ruin well where he have release the three brute king and the gold smith . at once the old recollection rush into he mind , and he think of the tiger to test he fidelity . only a moment pass , and the tiger-king come run before he carry a large crown in he mouth , the glitter of the diamond of which for a time outshone even the bright ray of the sun . he drop the crown at he life-giver 's foot , and , put aside all he pride , humble himself like a pet cat to the stroke of he protector , and begin in the following word : `` my life-giver ! how be it that you have forget I , you poor servant , for such a long time ? I be glad to find that I still occupy a corner in you mind . I can never forget the day when I owe my life to you lotus hand . I have several jewel with I of little value . this crown , be the best of all , I have bring here as a single ornament of great value , which you can carry with you and dispose of in you own country . '' Gangazara look at the crown , examine it over and over , count and recount the gem , and think within himself that he would become the richest of man by separate the diamond and gold , and sell they in he own country . he take leave of the tiger-king , and after he disappearance thought of the king of serpent and rat , who come in they turn with they present , and after the usual greeting and exchange of word take they leave . Gangazara be extremely delighted at the faithfulness with which the brute beast behave , and go on he way to the south . while go along he speak to himself thus : `` these beast have be very faithful in they assistance . much more , therefore , must Manikkasari be faithful . I do not want anything from he now . if I take this crown with I as it be , it occupy much space in my bundle . it may also excite the curiosity of some robber on the way . I will go now to Ujjaini on my way . Manikkasari request I to see he without failure on my return journey . I shall do so , and request he to have the crown melt , the diamond and gold separate . he must do that kindness at least for I . I shall then roll up these diamond and gold ball in my rag , and wend my way homeward . '' thus think and think , he reach Ujjaini . at once he inquire for the house of he goldsmith friend , and find he without difficulty . Manikkasari be extremely delighted to find on he threshold he who ten year before , notwithstanding the advice repeatedly give he by the sage-looking tiger , serpent , and rat , have relieve he from the pit of death . Gangazara at once show he the crown that he receive from the tiger - king , tell he how he get it , and request he kind assistance to separate the gold and diamond . Manikkasari agree to do so , and meanwhile ask he friend to rest himself for a while to have he bath and meal ; and Gangazara , who be very observant of he religious ceremony , go direct to the river to bathe . how come the crown in the jaw of the tiger ? the king of Ujjaini have a week before go with all he hunter on a hunting expedition . all of a sudden the tiger-king start from the wood , seize the king , and vanish . when the king 's attendant inform the prince about the death of he father he weep and wail , and give notice that he would give half of he kingdom to any one who should bring he news about the murderer of he father . the goldsmith know full well that it be a tiger that kill the king , and not any hunter 's hand , since he have hear from Gangazara how he obtain the crown . still , he resolve to denounce Gangazara as the king 's murderer , so , hide the crown under he garment , he fly to the palace . he go before the prince and inform he that the assassin be catch , and place the crown before he . the prince take it into he hand , examine it , and at once give half the kingdom to Manikkasari , and then inquire about the murderer . `` he be bathing in the river , and be of such and such appearance , '' be the reply . at once four armed soldier fly to the river , and bind the poor Brahman hand and foot , while he , sit in meditation , be without any knowledge of the fate that hang over he . they bring Gangazara to the presence of the prince , who turn he face away from the suppose murderer , and ask he soldier to throw he into a dungeon . in a minute , without know the cause , the poor Brahman find himself in the dark dungeon . it be a dark cellar underground , build with strong stone wall , into which any criminal guilty of a capital offence be usher to breathe he last there without food and drink . such be the cellar into which Gangazara be thrust . what be he thought when he reach that place ? `` it be of no use to accuse either the goldsmith or the prince now . we be all the child of fate . we must obey she command . this be but the first day of my father 's prophecy . so far he statement be true . but how be I go to pass ten year here ? perhaps without anything to sustain life I may drag on my existence for a day or two . but how pass ten year ? that can not be , and I must die . before death come let I think of my faithful brute friend . '' so ponder Gangazara in the dark cell underground , and at that moment thought of he three friend . the tiger-king , serpent-king , and rat - king assemble at once with they army at a garden near the dungeon , and for a while do not know what to do . they hold they council , and decide to make a underground passage from the inside of a ruin well to the dungeon . the rat raja issue a order at once to that effect to he army . they , with they tooth , bore the ground a long way to the wall of the prison . after reach it they find that they tooth could not work on the hard stone . the bandicoot be then specially order for the business ; they , with they hard tooth , make a small slit in the wall for a rat to pass and re-pass without difficulty . thus a passage be effect . the rat raja enter first to condole with he protector on he misfortune , and undertake to supply he protector with provision . `` whatever sweetmeat or bread be prepare in any house , one and all of you must try to bring whatever you can to we benefactor . whatever clothes you find hang in a house , cut down , dip the piece in water , and bring the wet bit to we benefactor . he will squeeze they and gather water for drink ! and the bread and sweetmeat shall form he food . '' have issue these order , the king of the rat take leave of Gangazara . they , in obedience to they king 's order , continue to supply he with provision and water . the snake-king say : `` I sincerely condole with you in you calamity ; the tiger-king also fully sympathise with you , and want I to tell you so , as he can not drag he huge body here as we have do with we small one . the king of the rat have promise to do he best to provide you with food . we would now do what we can for you release . from this day we shall issue order to we army to oppress all the subject of this kingdom . the death by snake-bite and tiger shall increase a hundredfold from this day , and day by day it shall continue to increase till you release . Whenever you hear people near you , you have better bawl out so as to be hear by they : ` the wretched prince imprison I on the false charge of have kill he father , while it be a tiger that kill he . from that day these calamity have break out in he dominion . if I be release I would save all by my power of heal poisonous wound and by incantation . ' some one may report this to the king , and if he know it , you will obtain you liberty . '' thus comforting he protector in trouble , he advise he to pluck up courage , and take leave of he . from that day tiger and serpent , act under the order of they king , unite in kill as many person and cattle as possible . every day people be carry away by tiger or bite by serpent . thus pass month and year . Gangazara sit in the dark cellar , without the sun 's light fall upon he , and feast upon the breadcrumb and sweetmeat that the rat so kindly supply he with . these delicacy have completely change he body into a red , stout , huge , unwieldy mass of flesh . thus pass full ten year , as prophesy in the horoscope . ten complete year roll away in close imprisonment . on the last evening of the tenth year one of the serpent get into the bed-chamber of the princess and suck she life . she breathe she last . she be the only daughter of the king . the king at once send for all the snake-bite curer . he promise half he kingdom and he daughter 's hand to he who would restore she to life . now a servant of the king who have several time overhear Gangazara 's cry , report the matter to he . the king at once order the cell to be examine . there be the man sit in it . how have he manage to live so long in the cell ? some whisper that he must be a divine be . thus they discuss , while they bring Gangazara to the king . the king no sooner see Gangazara than he fall on the ground . he be strike by the majesty and grandeur of he person . he ten year ' imprisonment in the deep cell underground have give a sort of lustre to he body . he hair have first to be cut before he face could be see . the king beg forgiveness for he former fault , and request he to revive he daughter . `` bring I within a hour all the corpse of man and cattle , die and dead , that remain unburnt or unburied within the range of you dominion ; I shall revive they all , '' be the only word that Gangazara speak . cartload of corpse of man and cattle begin to come in every minute . even grave , it be say , be break open , and corps bury a day or two before be take out and send for they revival . as soon as all be ready , Gangazara take a vessel full of water and sprinkle it over they all , think only of he snake-king and tiger-king . all rise up as if from deep slumber , and go to they respective home . the princess , too , be restore to life . the joy of the king know no bound . he curse the day on which he imprison he , blame himself for have believe the word of a goldsmith , and offer he the hand of he daughter and the whole kingdom , instead of half , as he promise . Gangazara would not accept anything , but ask the king to assemble all he subject in a wood near the town . `` I shall there call in all the tiger and serpent , and give they a general order . '' when the whole town be assemble , just at the dusk of evening , Gangazara sit dumb for a moment , and think upon the Tiger King and the Serpent King , who come with all they army . people begin to take to they heel at the sight of tiger . Gangazara assure they of safety , and stop they . the gray light of the evening , the pumpkin color of Gangazara , the holy ash scatter lavishly over he body , the tiger and snake humble themselves at he foot , give he the true majesty of the god Gangazara . for who else by a single word could thus command vast army of tiger and serpent , say some among the people . `` Care not for it ; it may be by magic . that be not a great thing . that he revive cartload of corpse show he to be surely Gangazara , '' say other . `` why should you , my child , thus trouble these poor subject of Ujjaini ? reply to I , and henceforth desist from you ravages . '' thus say the Soothsayer 's son , and the following reply come from the king of the tiger : `` why should this base king imprison you honor , believe the mere word of a goldsmith that you honor kill he father ? all the hunter tell he that he father be carry away by a tiger . I be the messenger of death send to deal the blow on he neck . I do it , and give the crown to you honor . the prince make no inquiry , and at once imprison you honor . how can we expect justice from such a stupid king as that ? unless he adopt a better standard of justice we will go on with we destruction . '' the king hear , curse the day on which he believe in the word of a goldsmith , beat he head , tear he hair , weep and wail for he crime , ask a thousand pardon , and swear to rule in a just way from that day . the serpent-king and tiger-king also promise to observe they oath as long as justice prevail , and take they leave . the gold-smith flee for he life . he be catch by the soldier of the king , and be pardon by the generous Gangazara , whose voice now reign supreme . all return to they home . the king again press Gangazara to accept the hand of he daughter . he agree to do so , not then , but some time afterwards . he wish to go and see he elder brother first , and then to return and marry the princess . the king agree ; and Gangazara leave the city that very day on he way home . it so happen that unwittingly he take a wrong road , and have to pass near a sea-coast . he elder brother be also on he way up to Benares by that very same route . they meet and recognize each other , even at a distance . they fly into each other 's arm . both remain still for a time almost unconscious with joy . the pleasure of Gangazara be so great that he die of joy . the elder brother be a devout worshipper of Ganesa . that be a Friday , a day very sacred to that god . the elder brother take the corpse to the nearest Ganesa temple and call upon he . the god come , and ask he what he want . `` my poor brother be dead and go ; and this be he corpse . kindly keep it in you charge till I finish worship you . if I leave it anywhere else the devil may snatch it away when I be absent worship you ; after finish the rite I shall burn he . '' thus say the elder brother , and , give the corpse to the god Ganesa , he go to prepare himself for that deity 's ceremonial . Ganesa make over the corpse to he Ganas , ask they to watch over it carefully . but instead of that they devour it . the elder brother , after finish the puja , demand he brother 's corpse of the god . the god call he Ganas , who come to the front blinking , and fear the anger of they master . the god be greatly enrage . the elder brother be very angry . when the corpse be not forthcoming he cuttingly remark , `` be this , after all , the return for my deep belief in you ? you be unable even to return my brother 's corpse . '' Ganesa be much ashamed at the remark . so he , by he divine power , give he a living Gangazara instead of the dead corpse . thus be the second son of the Soothsayer restore to life . the brother have a long talk about each other 's adventure . they both go to Ujjaini , where Gangazara marry the princess , and succeed to the throne of that kingdom . he reign for a long time , confer several benefit upon he brother . and so the horoscope be fully fulfil .