the HUSBAND-CONFESSOR La Fontain when Francis -lrb-B- name the first -rrb-B- o ` er Frenchmen reign 'd , in Italy young Arthur laurel gain , and oft such daring valor show in fight , with ev ` ry honor he be make a knight ; the monarch place the spur upon he heel , that all around he proper worth might feel . then household deity at home he seek , where -- not at prayer he beauteous dame he catch : he would leave she , truly , quite dissolv 'd in tear ; but now the belle have bid adieu to fear ; and oft be dance joyously around , with all the company that could be find . gallant in crowd Sir Arthur soon perceive ; at sight of these the knight be sorely grieve ; and , turn in he mind how best to act ; Cried he , can this be truly hold a fact , that I have be worthy while I have fame in view , of cuckoldom at home , and knighthood too ? it ought to be but half : -- the truth let 's know ; from constancy the purest blessing flow . then like a father-confessor he dress , and take he seat where priest they flock confess . he lady absolution seek that day , and on she knee before he ` gan to pray ; the minor sin be tell with downcast eye , and then for hear those of larger size , the husband-confessor prepared he ear : -- say she , good father , -lrb-B- ` mid a flood of tear -rrb-B- , my bed receive , -lrb-B- the fault I fear 's not slight , -rrb-B- a gentleman , a parson , and a knight . still more have follow , but , by rage o ` ercome , Sir Arthur cut the thread , and she be mum ; Though , doubtless , have the fair be let proceed , quite long she Litany have be decree . the husband , in a rage , exclaim , thou jade , a parson , say ` st thou ? t ` whom dost think thou ` st make this curst confession ? -- to my spouse , cry she , I see you enter here , and come with glee , suppose you would a trick to raise surprise ; Howe'er ` ti strange that one so very wise , the riddle should not fully comprehend : -- a KNIGHT , the king create you , my friend ; a GENTLEMAN , you rank be long ago ; a PARSON , you have make yourself you know . Goon heav ` n ! exclaim the knight , ` tis very clear , and I a blockhead surely must appear .