the EEL PIE La Fontain HOWEVER exquisite we beauty find , it satiate sense , and pall upon the mind : Brown bread as well as white must be for I ; my motto ever be -- variety . that brisk brunette , with languid , sleepy eye , delight my fancy ; can you tell I why ? the reason 's plain enough : -- she be something new . the other mistress , long within my view , Though lily fair , with seraph feature bless , no more emotion raise in my breast ; she heart assent , while mine reluctant prove ; Whence this diversity that in we move ? from hence it rise , to be plain and free , my motto ever be -- variety . the same in other word , I have often say ; ` tis right , at time , disguise with care to spread . the maxim 's good , and with it I agree : my motto ever be -- variety . a certain spouse the same devise have get , Whose wife by all be think a handsome lot . he love , howe'er , be over very soon ; it last only through the honeymoon ; Possession have he passion quite destroy ; in Hymen 's band too oft the lover 's cloyed . one , ` mong he valet , have a pretty wife ; the master be himself quite full of life , and soon the charmer to he wish draw , with which the husband discontent grow , and have catch they in the very fact , he ring he mate the change for the act ; Sad name he call she , howsoever just , a silly blockhead ! thus to raise a dust , for what , in ev ` ry town 's so common find ; May we worse fortune never meet around ! he make the paramor a grave harangue do not other give , say he , the poignant pang ; but ev ` ry one allow to keep he own , as God and reason oft to man have show , and recommend fully to observe ; you from it surely have not cause to swerve ; you can not plead that you for beauty pine you have one at home who far surpass mine ; no longer give yourself such trouble , pray : you , to my help-mate , too much honor pay ; such marked attention she can ne'er require let each of we , alone he own admire . to other ' well you never ought to go , while you 's with sweet be find to overflow ; I willingly appeal to connoisseur ; if heav ` n have bless I with such bliss as you 's , that when I please , you lady I could take , I would not for a queen such charm forsake . but since we can not prevent what now be know , I wish , good sir , contented with you own , -lrb-B- and ` tis , I hope , without offence I speak , -rrb-B- you 'll favor from my wife no longer seek . the master , neither no nor yes reply , but order give , he man they should provide ; for dinner ev ` ry day , what please he taste , a pie of eel , which near he should be place . he appetite at first be wond ` rous great ; again , the second time , as much he eat ; but when the third appear , he feel disgust , and not another morsel down could thrust . the valet fain would try a diff ` rent dish ; 'Twas not allow ; -- you have get , say they , you wish ; ` Tis pie alone ; you like it best you know , and no objection you must dare to show . I be surfeit , cry he , ` tis far too much : Pie ev ` ry day ! and nothing else to touch ! not e ` en a roasted eel , or stew , or fry ! Dry bread I would rather you would for I provide . of you 's allow I some at any rate , pie , -lrb-B- devil take they ! -rrb-B- thoroughly I hate ; they 'll follow I to Paradise I fear , or further yet ; -- Heav ` n keep I from such cheer ! THEIR noisy mirth the master thither draw , who much desire the frolick to pursue ; my friend , say he , I greatly feel surprise , that you so soon be weary grown of pie ; Have I not hear you frequently declare , eel-pie 's of all , the most delicious fare ? quite fickle , certainly , must be you taste ; can any thing in I so strange be trace ? when I exchange a food which you admire ; you blame and say , I never ought to tire ; you do the very same ; in truth , my friend , no mark of folly ` tis , you may depend , in lord or squire , or citizen or clown , to change the bread that be white for bit of brown : with more experience , you 'll with I agree , -- my motto ever be -- variety . when thus the master have himself express , the valet presently be less distressed ; some argument , howe'er , at first he use ; for , after all -- be fully we excuse , when we we pleasure solely have in view ; without regard what be to other due ? I relish change ; well , take it ; but ` tis best , to gain the belle with love of gold possess ; and that appear to I the proper plan ; in truth , we lover very soon begin to practice this advice ; -- he voice and way could angel-sweetness instantly convey . he word be always gilt ; -lrb-B- impressive tongue ! -rrb-B- to gilded word will sure success belong . in soft amours they be ev ` ry thing ` ti plain the maxim 's certain , and we aim will gain ; my meaning doubtless easily be see ; a hundred time repeat this have be Th ' impression should be make so very deep , that I thereon can never silence keep ; and this the constant burden of my song -- to gilded word will sure success belong . they easily persuade the beauteous dame ; she dog , she maid , duenna , all the same ; the husband sometimes too , and he we have show 'Twas necessary here to gain alone ; by golden eloquence he soul be lull ; although from ancient orator not cull : they book retain have nothing of the kind ; we jealous spouse indulgent grow we find . he follow e ` en , ` ti say , the other 's plan -- and , thence he dish to exchange begin . the master and he fav ` rite 's freak around ; continually the table-talk be find ; he always think the newest face the best : where'er he could , each beauty he caress ; the wife , the widow , daughter , servant-maid , the nymph of field or town : -- with all he play ; and , while he breathe , the same would always be ; he motto ever be -- variety .