the pig . H. C. Andersen Charles Dickens once tell we about a pig , and since that time we be in a good humor if we only hear one grunt . St. Antony take the pig under he protection ; and when we think of the prodigal son we always associate with he the idea of feed swine ; and it be in front of a pig-sty that a certain carriage stop in Sweden , about which I be go to talk . the farmer have he pig-sty build out towards the high road , close by he house , and it be a wonderful pig-sty . it be a old state carriage . the seat have be take out and the wheel take off , and so the body of the old coach lay on the ground , and four pig be shut up inside it . I wonder if these be the first that have ever be there ? that point could not certainly be determine ; but that it have be a real state coach everything bear witness , even to the damask rag that hang down from the roof ; everything speak of better day . `` Humph ! humph ! '' say the occupant , and the coach creak and groan ; for it have come to a mournful end . `` the beautiful have depart , '' it sigh -- or at least it might have do so . we come back in autumn . the coach be there still , but the pig be go . they be play the grand lord out in the wood . blossom and leaf be go from all the tree , and storm and rain rule , and give they neither peace nor rest ; and the bird of passage have fly . `` the beautiful have depart ! this be the glorious green wood , but the song of the bird and the warm sunshine be go ! go ! '' thus say the mournful voice that creak in the lofty branch of the tree , and it sound like a deep-drawn sigh , a sigh from the bosom of the wild rose tree , and of he who sit there ; it be the rose king . Do you know he ? he be all beard , the finest reddish-green beard ; he be easily recognize . go up to the wild rise bush , and when in autumn all the flower have fade from they , and only the wild hip remain , you will often find under they a great red-green moss flower ; and that be the rose king . a little green leaf grow up out of he head , and that be he feather . he be the only man of he kind on the rose bush ; and he it be who sigh . -lrb-B- illustration : the PIGS AT HOME in the OLD STATE COACH . aaaaa -rrb-B- aaa `` go ! go ! the beautiful be go ! the rose have fade , and the leaf fall down ! it be wet here ! it be boisterous here ! the bird who use to sing be dumb , and the pig go out hunting for acorn , and the pig be the lord of the forest ! '' the night be cold and the day be misty ; but , for all that , the raven sit on the branch and sing , `` good ! good ! '' Raven and crow sit on the high bough ; and they have a large family , who all say , `` good ! good ! '' and the majority be always right . under the high tree , in the hollow , be a great puddle , and here the pig recline , great and small . they find the place so inexpressibly lovely ! `` oui ! ouus ! '' they all exclaim . that be all the french they know , but even that be something ; and they be so clever and so fat ! the old one lay quite still , and reflect ; the young one be very busy , and be not quiet a moment . one little porker have a twist in he tail like a ring , and this ring be he mother 's pride : she think all the rest be look at the ring , and think only of the ring ; but that they be not do ; they be think of themselves and of what be useful , and what be the use of the wood . they have always hear that the acorn they eat grow at the root of the tree , and accordingly they have grub up the ground ; but there come quite a little pig -- it be always the young one who come out with they new-fangled notion -- who declare that the acorn fall down from the branch , for one have just fall down on he head , and the idea have strike he at once , afterwards he have make observation , and now be quite certain on the point . the old one put they head together . `` umph ! '' they say , `` umph ! the glory have depart : the twittering of the bird be all over : we want fruit ; whatever 's good to eat be good , and we eat everything . '' `` oui ! ouus ! '' chime in all the rest . but the mother now look at she little porker , the one with the ring in he tail , `` one must not overlook the beautiful , '' she say . `` good ! good ! '' cry the crow , and fly down from the tree to try and get a appointment as nightingale ; for some one must be appoint ; and the crow obtain the office directly . `` go ! go ! '' sigh the rose king . `` all the beautiful be go ! '' it be boisterous , it be gray , cold , and windy ; and through the forest and over the field sweep the rain in long dark streak . where be the bird who sing , where be the flower upon the meadow , and the sweet berry of the wood ? go ! go ! then a light gleam from the forester 's house . it be light up like a star , and throw its long ray among the tree . a song sound forth out of the house ! beautiful child play there round the old grandfather . he sit with the Bible on he knee , and read of the Creator and of a better world , and speak of spring that would return , of the forest that would array itself in fresh green , of the rose that would bloom , the nightingale that would sing , and of the beautiful that would reign in its glory again . but the rose king hear it not , for he sit in the cold , damp weather , and sigh , `` go ! go ! '' and the pig be the lord of the forest , and the old mother sow look proudly at she little porker with the twist in he tail . `` there be always somebody who have a soul for the beautiful ! '' she say .