the CHARMED RING Indian Writer a merchant start he son in life with three hundred rupee , and bid he go to another country and try he luck in trade . the son take the money and depart . he have not go far before he come across some herdsman quarrel over a dog , that some of they wish to kill . `` please do not kill the dog , '' plead the young and tender-hearted fellow ; `` I will give you one hundred rupee for it . '' then and there , of course , the bargain be conclude , and the foolish fellow take the dog , and continue he journey . he next meet with some people fight about a cat . some of they want to kill it , but other not . `` oh ! please do not kill it , '' say he ; `` I will give you one hundred rupee for it . '' of course they at once give he the cat and take the money . he go on till he reach a village , where some folk be quarrel over a snake that have just be catch . some of they wish to kill it , but other do not . `` please do not kill the snake , '' say he ; `` I will give you one hundred rupee . '' of course the people agree , and be highly delighted . what a fool the fellow be ! what would he do now that all he money be go ? what could he do except return to he father ? accordingly he go home . `` you fool ! you scamp ! '' exclaim he father when he have hear how he son have waste all the money that have be give to he . `` go and live in the stable and repent of you folly . you shall never again enter my house . '' so the young man go and live in the stable . he bed be the grass spread for the cattle , and he companion be the dog , the cat , and the snake , which he have purchase so dearly . these creature get very fond of he , and would follow he about during the day , and sleep by he at night ; the cat use to sleep at he foot , the dog at he head , and the snake over he body , with its head hang on one side and its tail on the other . one day the snake in course of conversation say to its master , `` I be the son of Raja Indrasha . one day , when I have come out of the ground to drink the air , some people seize I , and would have slay I have you not most opportunely arrive to my rescue . I do not know how I shall ever be able to repay you for you great kindness to I . would that you know my father ! how glad he would be to see he son 's preserver ! '' `` where do he live ? I should like to see he , if possible , '' say the young man . `` Well say ! '' continue the snake . `` do you see yonder mountain ? at the bottom of that mountain there be a sacred spring . if you will come with I and dive into that spring , we shall both reach my father 's country . oh ! how glad he will be to see you ! he will wish to reward you , too . but how can he do that ? however , you may be please to accept something at he hand . if he ask you what you would like , you would , perhaps , do well to reply , ` the ring on you right hand , and the famous pot and spoon which you possess . ' with these in you possession , you would never need anything , for the ring be such that a man have only to speak to it , and immediately a beautiful furnished mansion will be provide for he , while the pot and the spoon will supply he with all manner of the rarest and most delicious food . '' attend by he three companion the man walk to the well and prepared to jump in , accord to the snake 's direction . `` o master ! '' exclaim the cat and dog , when they see what he be go to do . `` what shall we do ? where shall we go ? '' `` wait for I here , '' he reply . `` I be not go far . I shall not be long away . '' on say this , he dive into the water and be lose to sight . `` now what shall we do ? '' say the dog to the cat . `` we must remain here , '' reply the cat , `` as we master order . do not be anxious about food . I will go to the people 's house and get plenty of food for both of we . '' and so the cat do , and they both live very comfortably till they master come again and join they . the young man and the snake reach they destination in safety ; and information of they arrival be send to the Raja . he highness command he son and the stranger to appear before he . but the snake refuse , say that it could not go to its father till it be release from this stranger , who have save it from a most terrible death , and whose slave it therefore be . then the Raja go and embrace he son , and salute the stranger welcome he to he dominion . the young man stay there a few day , during which he receive the Raja 's right-hand ring , and the pot and spoon , in recognition of he Highness 's gratitude to he for have deliver he son . he then return . on reach the top of the spring he find he friend , the dog and the cat , wait for he . they tell one another all they have experience since they have last see each other , and be all very glad . afterwards they walk together to the river side , where it be decide to try the power of the charmed ring and pot and spoon . the merchant 's son speak to the ring , and immediately a beautiful house and a lovely princess with golden hair appear . he speak to the pot and spoon , also , and the most delicious dish of food be provide for they . so he marry the princess , and they live very happily for several year , until one morning the princess , while arrange she toilet , put the loose hair into a hollow bit of reed and throw they into the river that flow along under the window . the reed float on the water for many mile , and be at last pick up by the prince of that country , who curiously open it and see the golden hair . on find it the prince rush off to the palace , lock himself up in he room , and would not leave it . he have fall desperately in love with the woman whose hair he have pick up , and refuse to eat , or drink , or sleep , or move , till she be bring to he . the king , he father , be in great distress about the matter , and do not know what to do . he fear lest he son should die and leave he without a heir . at last he determine to seek the counsel of he aunt , who be a ogress . the old woman consent to help he , and bid he not to be anxious , as she feel certain that she would succeed in get the beautiful woman for he son 's wife . she assume the shape of a bee and go along buzz , and buzz , and buzz . she keen sense of smell soon bring she to the beautiful princess , to whom she appear as a old hag , hold in one hand a stick by way of support . she introduce herself to the beautiful princess and say , `` I be you aunt , whom you have never see before , because I leave the country just after you birth . '' she also embrace and kiss the princess by way of add force to she word . the beautiful princess be thoroughly deceive . she return the ogress 's embrace , and invite she to come and stay in the house as long as she could , and treat she with such honor and attention , that the ogress think to herself , `` I shall soon accomplish my errand . '' when she have be in the house three day , she begin to talk of the charmed ring , and advise she to keep it instead of she husband , because the latter be constantly out shooting and on other such-like expedition , and might lose it . accordingly the beautiful princess ask she husband for the ring , and he readily give it to she . the ogress wait another day before she ask to see the precious thing . doubt nothing , the beautiful princess comply , when the ogress seize the ring , and reassume the form of a bee fly away with it to the palace , where the prince be lie nearly on the point of death . `` rise up . be glad . Mourn no more , '' she say to he . `` the woman for whom you yearn will appear at you summons . See , here be the charm , whereby you may bring she before you . '' the prince be almost mad with joy when he hear these word , and be so desirous of see the beautiful princess , that he immediately speak to the ring , and the house with its fair occupant descend in the midst of the palace garden . he at once enter the building , and tell the beautiful princess of he intense love , entreat she to be he wife . see no escape from the difficulty , she consent on the condition that he would wait one month for she . meanwhile the merchant 's son have return from hunting and be terribly distressed not to find he house and wife . there be the place only , just as he know it before he have try the charmed ring which Raja Indrasha have give he . he sit down and determine to put a end to himself . presently the cat and dog come up . they have go away and hide themselves , when they see the house and everything disappear . `` o master ! '' they say , `` stay you hand . you trial be great , but it can be remedy . give we one month , and we will go and try to recover you wife and house . '' `` go , '' say he , `` and may the great God aid you effort . bring back my wife , and I shall live . '' so the cat and dog start off at a run , and do not stop till they reach the place whither they mistress and the house have be take . `` we may have some difficulty here , '' say the cat . `` look , the king have take we master 's wife and house for himself . you stay here . I will go to the house and try to see she . '' so the dog sit down , and the cat climb up to the window of the room , wherein the beautiful princess be sit , and enter . the princess recognize the cat , and inform it of all that have happen to she since she have leave they . `` but be there no way of escape from the hand of these people ? '' she ask . `` yes , '' reply the cat , `` if you can tell I where the charm ring be . '' `` the ring be in the stomach of the ogress , '' she say . `` all right , '' say the cat , `` I will recover it . if we once get it , everything be ours . '' then the cat descend the wall of the house , and go and lay down by a rat 's hole and pretend she be dead . now at that time a great wedding chance to be go on among the rat community of that place , and all the rat of the neighborhood be assemble in that one particular mine by which the cat have lie down . the eldest son of the king of the rat be about to be marry . the cat get to know of this , and at once conceive the idea of seize the bridegroom and make he render the necessary help . consequently , when the procession pour forth from the hole squeal and jump in honor of the occasion , it immediately spot the bridegroom and pounce down on he . `` oh ! let I go , let I go , '' cry the terrify rat . `` oh ! let he go , '' squeal all the company . `` it be he wedding day . '' `` no , no , '' reply the cat . `` not unless you do some thing for I . listen . the ogress , who live in that house with the prince and he wife , have swallow a ring , which I very much want . if you will procure it for I , I will allow the rat to depart unharmed . if you do not , then you prince die under my foot . '' `` very well , we agree , '' say they all . `` Nay , if we do not get the ring for you , devour we all . '' this be rather a bold offer . however , they accomplish the thing . at midnight , when the ogress be sound asleep , one of the rat go to she bedside , climb up on she face , and insert its tail into she throat ; whereupon the ogress cough violently , and the ring come out and roll on to the floor . the rat immediately seize the precious thing and run off with it to its king , who be very glad , and go at once to the cat and release its son . as soon as the cat receive the ring , she start back with the dog to go and tell they master the good tiding . all seem safe now . they have only to give the ring to he , and he would speak to it , and the house and beautiful princess would again be with they , and everything would go on as happily as before . `` how glad master will be ! '' they think , and run as fast as they leg could carry they . now , on the way they have to cross a stream . the dog swam , and the cat sit on its back . now the dog be jealous of the cat , so he ask for the ring , and threaten to throw the cat into the water if it do not give it up ; whereupon the cat give up the ring . sorry moment , for the dog at once drop it , and a fish swallow it . `` oh ! what shall I do ? what shall I do ? '' say the dog . `` what be do be do , '' reply the cat . `` we must try to recover it , and if we do not succeed we have better drown ourselves in this stream . I have a plan . you go and kill a small lamb , and bring it here to I . '' `` all right , '' say the dog , and at once run off . he soon come back with a dead lamb , and give it to the cat . the cat get inside the lamb and lay down , tell the dog to go away a little distance and keep quiet . not long after this a nadhar , a bird whose look can break the bone of a fish , come and hover over the lamb , and eventually pounce down on it to carry it away . on this the cat come out and jump on to the bird , and threaten to kill it if it do not recover the lose ring . this be most readily promise by the nadhar , who immediately fly off to the king of the fish , and order it to make inquiry and to restore the ring . the king of the fish do so , and the ring be find and carry back to the cat . `` come along now ; I have get the ring , '' say the cat to the dog . `` no , I will not , '' say the dog , `` unless you let I have the ring . I can carry it as well as you . let I have it or I will kill you . '' so the cat be oblige to give up the ring . the careless dog very soon drop it again . this time it be pick up and carry off by a kite . `` see , see , there it go -- away to that big tree , '' the cat exclaim . `` oh ! oh ! what have I do ? '' cry the dog . `` you foolish thing , I know it would be so , '' say the cat . `` but stop you bark , or you will frighten away the bird to some place where we shall not be able to trace it . '' the cat wait till it be quite dark , and then climb the tree , kill the kite , and recover the ring . `` come along , '' it say to the dog when it reach the ground . `` we must make haste now . we have be delay . we master will die from grief and suspense . come on . '' the dog , now thoroughly ashamed of itself , beg the cat 's pardon for all the trouble it have give . it be afraid to ask for the ring the third time , so they both reach they sorrowing master in safety and give he the precious charm . in a moment he sorrow be turn into joy . he speak to the ring , and he beautiful wife and house reappear , and he and everybody be as happy as ever they could be .