the tale of two BAD MICE Beatrix Potter once upon a time there be a very beautiful doll 's house ; it be red brick with white window , and it have real muslin curtain and a front door and a chimney . it belong to two doll call Lucinda and Jane ; at least it belong to Lucinda , but she never order meal . Jane be the Cook ; but she never do any cooking , because the dinner have be buy ready-made , in a box full of shaving . THERE be two red lobster , and a ham , a fish , a pudding , and some pear and orange . they would not come off the plate , but they be extremely beautiful . one morning Lucinda and Jane have go out for a drive in the doll 's perambulator . there be no one in the nursery , and it be very quiet . presently there be a little scuffling , scratch noise in a corner near the fireplace , where there be a hole under the skirting-board . Tom Thumb put out he head for a moment , and then pop it in again . Tom Thumb be a mouse . a minute afterwards Hunca Munca , he wife , put she head out , too ; and when she see that there be no one in the nursery , she venture out on the oilcloth under the coal-box . the doll 's house stand at the other side of the fireplace . Tom Thumb and Hunca Munca go cautiously across the hearth-rug . they push the front door -- it be not fast . TOM THUMB and Hunca Munca go up-stairs and peep into the dining - room . then they squeak with joy ! such a lovely dinner be lay out upon the table ! there be tin spoon , and lead knife and fork , and two dolly-chairs -- all so convenient ! TOM THUMB set to work at once to carve the ham . it be a beautiful shiny yellow , streak with red . the knife crumple up and hurt he ; he put he finger in he mouth . `` it be not boil enough ; it be hard . you have a try , Hunca Munca . '' HUNCA MUNCA stand up in she chair , and chop at the ham with another lead knife . `` it be as hard as the ham at the cheesemonger 's , '' say Hunca Munca . the ham break off the plate with a jerk , and roll under the table . `` let it alone , '' say Tom Thumb ; `` give I some fish , Hunca Munca ! '' HUNCA MUNCA try every tin spoon in turn ; the fish be glue to the dish . then Tom Thumb lose he temper . he put the ham in the middle of the floor , and hit it with the tong and with the shovel -- bang , bang , smash , smash ! the ham fly all into piece , for underneath the shiny paint it be make of nothing but plaster ! then there be no end to the rage and disappointment of Tom Thumb and Hunca Munca . they break up the pudding , the lobster , the pear , and the orange . as the fish would not come off the plate , they put it into the red-hot crinkly paper fire in the kitchen ; but it would not burn either . TOM THUMB go up the kitchen chimney and look out at the top -- there be no soot . WHILE Tom Thumb be up the chimney , Hunca Munca have another disappointment . she find some tiny canister upon the dresser , label `` Rice , '' `` Coffee '' `` Sago '' ; but when she turn they upside down there be nothing inside except red and blue bead . then those mouse set to work to do all the mischief they could -- especially Tom Thumb ! he take Jane 's clothes out of the chest of drawer in she bedroom , and he throw they out of the top - floor window . but Hunca Munca have a frugal mind . after pull half the feather out of Lucinda 's bolster , she remember that she herself be in want of a feather-bed . with Tom Thumb 's assistance she carry the bolster down-stairs and across the hearth-rug . it be difficult to squeeze the bolster into the mouse-hole ; but they manage it somehow . THEN Hunca Munca go back and fetch a chair , a bookcase , a bird-cage , and several small odds and end . the bookcase and the bird-cage refuse to go into the mouse-hole . HUNCA MUNCA leave they behind the coal - box , and go to fetch a cradle . HUNCA MUNCA be just return with another chair , when suddenly there be a noise of talk outside upon the landing . the mouse rush back to they hole , and the doll come into the nursery . what a sight meet the eye of Jane and Lucinda ! Lucinda sit upon the upset kitchen stove and stare , and Jane lean against the kitchen dresser and smile ; but neither of they make any remark . the bookcase and the bird - cage be rescue from under the coal-box ; but Hunca Munca have get the cradle and some of Lucinda 's clothes . SHE also have some useful pot and pan , and several other thing . the little girl that the doll 's house belong to say : `` I will get a doll dress like a policeman ! '' BUT the nurse say : `` I will set a mouse-trap ! '' so that be the story of the two Bad Mice . but they be not so very , very naughty after all , because Tom Thumb pay for everything he break . he find a crooked sixpence under the hearth-rug ; and upon Christmas Eve he and Hunca Munca stuff it into one of the stocking of Lucinda and Jane . and very early every morning -- before anybody be awake -- Hunca Munca come with she dust-pan and she broom to sweep the DolliesS ' house ! the end