the monk of CATALONIA La Fontain to you , my friend , allow I to detail , the feat of monk in Catalonia 's vale , where oft the holy father pow ` r display , and show such charity to wife and maid , that o ` er they mind sweet fascination reign , and make they think , they Paradise have gain . such character oft preciously advise , and youthful easy female mind surprise , the beauteous FAIR encircle with they net , and , of the feeling heart , possession get : work in the holy vineyard , you may guess , and , as we tale will show , with full success . in time of old , when learn ` mong the FAIR , Enough to read the testament , be rare , -lrb-B- Times howsoe'er think difficult to quote , -rrb-B- a swarm of monk of gormandize note , arrive and fix themselves within a town , for young and beauteous belle of great renown , while , of gallant , there seem but very few , though num ` rous age husband you might view . a noble chapel soon the father raise , to which the female run and highly praise , survey it o ` er and confidently think , 'twa there , of course , salvation should be seek . and when they faith have thoroughly be prove , to gain they point the monk the veil remove . -- good father Andrew scorn to use finesse , and in discourse the sex would thus address . if any thing prevent you sov ` reign bliss , and Paradise incautiously you miss , most certainly the evil will arise , from keep for you husband large supplies , of what a surplus you have clearly get , and more than requisite to they allot , without bestow on you trusty friend , the saving that to no one blessing lend . PERHAPS you 'll tell I , marriage boon we shun ; ` ti true , and Heav ` n be praise enough be do , without those duty to require we share you know from direful sin we guard the FAIR . Ingratitude 's declare the height of crime , and God pronounce it such in early time ; for this eternally be satan curst ; Howe'er you err , be careful of the worst . return to Heav ` n you thanks for bounteous care , and then to we a tithe of surplus spare , which cost you nothing worth a moment 's thought ; and mark the zeal with which we faith be teach , a claim legitimate we order ope , bestow , for holy office , by pope , no charitable gift , but lawful right : PriestsS well support be a glorious sight . four time a year , exactly to a day , each wife this tithe should personally pay we holy saint require that you submit : ` Tis found on decree of holy writ . all Nature carefully the law revere , that gratitude and fealty endear . now marriage work we rank as a estate , and tithe be due for that at any rate . we 'll take it patiently , whate'er the toil : nor be o ` er nice about the justful spoil . we order have not , you must surely know , by many comfort , what we wish below . ` tis right , however , that I now suggest , whatever pass must not be express ; but naught to husband , parent , friend , reveal ; from ev ` ry one the mysterious conceal . three word th ' apostle teach : be these you care ; FAITH , CHARITY , and PRUDENCE learn to share . the holy father , by he fine discourse , deliver with the most impressive force , Gave wonderous satisfaction and surprise , and pass with all for Solomon the wise ; few sleep while Andrew preach , and ev ` ry wife , he precept guard as she would she life ; and these not solely treasured in the mind , but show to practice they the heart incline , each hasten tithe to bring without delay , and quarrel who should be the first to pay ; loud murmur ring , and many city dame , be force to keep till morn the friar 's claim , and HOLY CHURCH , not know what to do , such number seem to be in pay cue , at length be force , without restraint , to say , the Lord command that , till a future day , you give we time to breathe : -- so large the lot , to serve for present we enough have get ; too much the whole at once , but by degree , you tithe we 'll take and all contrive to please . with we arrange the hour you would be here , and some to-day : -- to-morrow more we 'll cheer ; the whole in order , and you 'll clearly see , that SOFTLY with FAIRLY best agree . the sex incline to follow this advice ; about receipt however they be not nice ; the entertainment greatly be admire , and pure devotion all they bosom fire , a glass of cordial some apart receive ; good cheer be give , may be well believe ; ten youthful dame brisk friar Fripart take , Gay , airy , and engaging ev ` ry look , who pay with pleasure all the monk could wish ; some have fifteen : -- some twelve to taste they dish ; Good friar Rock have twenty for he share , and give such satisfaction to the FAIR , that some , to show they never grudge the price , and prove they punctuality , -- pay twice . so much indeed , that satiate with way , that six long month engage they night and day : they gladly credit would have give now , but find the lady would not this allow , believe it most positively wrong , to keep whate'er might to the church belong . no tithe arrears be any where around , so zealous be the dame in duty find , they often in advance pay holy due , how pure the monk ! -- how just the lady view ! the friar use despatch alone with those , that for they fascinating charm they choose , and send the sempiternal to bestow , the tribute they have bring on those below , for in the refuse tithe that be they lot , the laick oft pleasant pickings get . in short 'twa difficult to say , what charity be show from day to day . it happen that one night a married dame , Desirous to convey the monk they claim , and walk with she spouse just by the spot , where dwell the arch contriver of the plot , good HeavensS ! say she , I well remember now , I have business with a friar here , I vow ; ` Twill presently be do if you 'll but wait ; religious duty we must ne'er abate . what duty ? cry the husband with surprise ; you be surely mad : -- ` tis midnight I surmise ; Confess yourself to-morrow if require ; the holy father be to bed retire . that make no difference , the lady cry . -- I think it do , the husband straight reply , and thither I 'll not let you go to-night : -- what heinous sin so terribly affright , that in such haste the mind you wish to ease ? to-morrow morn repair whene'er you please : you do I wrong , rejoin the charming fair ; I neither want confession nor a prayer , but anxiously desire what be due to pay ; for if incautiously I should delay , long time ` would be ere I the monk should see , with other matter he 'll so busy be . but what can you the holy father owe ? to which the lady say : -- what do not you know ? a tithe , my dear , the friar always claim . -- what tithe ? cry he ; it surely have a name . not know ! astonishingly , reply the wife . -- to which the husband answer : -- on my life , that woman friar pay be very strange ; Will you particulars with I arrange ? how cunningly , say she , you seem to act ; why clearly you be acquaint with the fact ? ` Tis Hymeneal work : -- what work ? cry he -- Lord ! say the dame , assuredly you see , why I have pay a hour ago or more and you have prevent I when at the door ; I be sure , of those who owe , I be not the worst , for I , in pay , always be the first . the husband quite astonished now appear ; at once a hundred diff ` rent ill he fear ; but question he wife howe'er , he find , that many other dame who live around , like she ; in pay tithe , the monk obey , which consolation to he breast convey . Poor innocent ! she nothing wish to hide ; Said she , not one but tithe they make provide ; good friar Aubrey take you sister 's due ; to father Fabry Mrs. B 's accrue ; the mayoress friar William like to greet , a monk more handsome scarcely you will meet ; and I to friar Gerard always go ; I wish this night to pay he all I owe . ALAS ! when tongue unbridled drop disguise , what direful ill , what discord oft arise ! the cunning husband have thus obtain , ParticularsS of what the father gain , at first design in secret to disclose , those scene of fraud and matrimonial woe : the mayor and citizen should know , he think ; what due be pay : what tithe the friar seek ; but since 'twa rather difficult to place , Full credence , at the first , in such a case , he judge it best to make the fellow speak , to whom he wife have show herself so weak . for father Gerard in the morn he send , who , unsuspecting , to the husband go , when , in the presence of the injured wife , he draw he sword and swear he would take he life , unless the mystery he would disclose , which he reluctantly through terror choose . then have bind the friar hand and foot , and in another room he lady put , he sally forth he hapless lot to tell , and to the mayor expose the wily spell ; the corporation next ; then up and down , the secret he divulge throughout the town . a cry for vengeance presently be hear ; the whole at once to slaughter , some prefer while other would the place with fire surround , and burn the house with those within it find . some wish to drown they , bind within they dress ; with various other project you may guess ; but all agree that death should be they lot , and those for burning have most voice get . without delay they to the convent fly ; but when the holy mansion come in view , respect , the place of execution change ; a citizen he barn for this arrange ; the crafty crew together be confine , and in the blaze they wretched life resign , while round the husband dance at sound of drum , and burnt whatever to they hand have come ; Naught ` scap they fury , monk of all degree , robe , mantle , capuchin , and mock decree : All perish properly within the flame ; but nothing more I find about the dame ; and friar Gerard , in another place , have meet apart he merited disgrace .