67 the Twelve Huntsmen BrothersS Grimm there be once a King 's son who be betroth to a maiden whom he love very much . and when he be sit beside she and very happy , news come that he father lay sick unto death , and desire to see he once again before he end . then he say to he beloved , `` I must now go and leave thee , I give thee a ring as a remembrance of I . when I be King , I will return and fetch thee . '' so he ride away , and when he reach he father , the latter be dangerously ill , and near he death . he say to he , `` dear son , I wish to see thee once again before my end , promise I to marry as I wish , '' and he name a certain King 's daughter who be to be he wife . the son be in such trouble that he do not think what he be do , and say , `` yes , dear father , you will shall be do , '' and thereupon the King shut he eye , and die . when therefore the son have be proclaim King , and the time of mourn be over , he be force to keep the promise which he have give he father , and cause the King 's daughter to be ask in marriage , and she be promise to he . he first betroth hear of this , and fret so much about he faithlessness that she nearly die . then she father say to she , `` dearest child , why art thou so sad ? Thou shalt have whatsoever thou wilt . '' she think for a moment and say , `` dear father , I wish for eleven girl exactly like myself in face , figure , and size . '' the father say , `` if it be possible , thy desire shall be fulfil , '' and he cause a search to be make in he whole kingdom , until eleven young maiden be find who exactly resemble he daughter in face , figure , and size . when they come to the King 's daughter , she have twelve suit of huntsman 's clothes make , all alike , and the eleven maiden have to put on the huntsman 's clothes , and she herself put on the twelfth suit . Thereupon she take leave of she father , and ride away with they , and ride to the court of she former betrothed , whom she love so dearly . then she inquire if he require any huntsman , and if he would take the whole of they into he service . the King look at she and do not know she , but as they be such handsome fellow , he say , `` yes , '' and that he would willingly take they , and now they be the King 's twelve huntsman . the King , however , have a lion which be a wondrous animal , for he know all conceal and secret thing . it come to pass that one evening he say to the King , `` Thou thinkest thou hast twelve huntsman ? '' `` yes , '' say the King , `` they be twelve huntsman . '' the lion continue , `` Thou art mistake , they be twelve girl . '' the King say , `` that can not be true ! how wilt thou prove that to I ? '' `` oh , just let some pea be strew in thy ante-chamber , '' answer the lion , `` and then thou wilt soon see it . man have a firm step , and when they walk over the pea none of they stir , but girl trip and skip , and drag they foot , and the pea roll about . '' the King be well please with the counsel , and cause the pea to be strew . there be , however , a servant of the King 's who favor the huntsman , and when he hear that they be go to be put to this test he go to they and repeat everything , and say , `` the lion want to make the King believe that you be girl . '' then the King 's daughter thank he , and say to she maiden , `` put on some strength , and step firmly on the pea . '' so next morning when the King have the twelve huntsman call before he , and they come into the ante-chamber where the pea be lie , they step so firmly on they , and have such a strong , sure walk , that not one of the pea either roll or stir . then they go away again , and the King say to the lion , `` Thou hast lie to I , they walk just like man . '' the lion say , `` they have get to know that they be go to be put to the test , and have assume some strength . just let twelve spinning-wheels be bring into the ante-chamber some day , and they will go to they and be please with they , and that be what no man would do . '' the King like the advice , and have the spinning-wheels place in the ante-chamber . but the servant , who be well dispose to the huntsman , go to they , and disclose the project . then when they be alone the King 's daughter say to she eleven girl , `` put some constraint on yourselve , and do not look round at the spinning-wheels . '' and next morning when the King have he twelve huntsman summon , they go through the ante-chamber , and never once look at the spinning wheel . then the king again say to the lion , `` Thou hast deceive I , they be man , for they have not look at the spinning-wheels . '' the lion reply , `` they have learn that they be go to be put to the test , and have restrain themselves . '' the King , however , would no longer believe the lion . the twelve huntsman always follow the King to the chase , and he liking for they continually increase . now it come to pass that once when they be out hunting , news come that the King 's betrothed be approach . when the true bride hear that , it hurt she so much that she heart be almost break , and she fall faint to the ground . the King think something have happen to he dear huntsman , run up to he , want to help he , and draw he glove off . then he see the ring which he have give to he first bride , and when he look in she face he recognize she . then he heart be so touch that he kiss she , and when she open she eye he say , `` Thou art mine , and I be thine , and no one in the world can alter that . '' he send a messenger to the other bride , and entreat she to return to she own kingdom , for he have a wife already , and a man who have just find a old dish do not require a new one . Thereupon the wedding be celebrate , and the lion be again take into favor , because , after all , he have tell the truth .