188 the Spindle , the Shuttle , and the Needle BrothersS Grimm there be once a girl whose father and mother die while she be still a little child . all alone , in a small house at the end of the village , dwell she godmother , who support herself by spinning , weave , and sew . the old woman take the forlorn child to live with she , keep she to she work , and educate she in all that be good . when the girl be fifteen year old , the old woman become ill , call the child to she bedside , and say , `` dear daughter , I feel my end drawing near . I leave thee the little house , which will protect thee from wind and weather , and my spindle , shuttle , and needle , with which thou canst earn thy bread . '' then she lay she hand on the girl 's head , bless she , and say , `` only preserve the love of God in thy heart , and all will go well with thee . '' Thereupon she close she eye , and when she be lay in the earth , the maiden follow the coffin , weep bitterly , and pay she the last mark of respect . and now the maiden live quite alone in the little house , and be industrious , and span , wove , and sew , and the blessing of the good old woman be on all that she do . it seem as if the flax in the room increase of its own accord , and whenever she weave a piece of cloth or carpet , or have make a shirt , she at once find a buyer who pay she amply for it , so that she be in want of nothing , and even have something to share with other . about this time , the son of the King be travel about the country look for a bride . he be not to choose a poor one , and do not want to have a rich one . so he say , `` she shall be my wife who be the poorest , and at the same time the richest . '' when he come to the village where the maiden dwelt , he inquire , as he do wherever he go , who be the richest and also the poorest girl in the place ? they first name the richest ; the poorest , they say , be the girl who live in the small house quite at the end of the village . the rich girl be sit in all she splendor before the door of she house , and when the prince approach she , she get up , go to meet he , and make he a low curtsey . he look at she , say nothing , and ride on . when he come to the house of the poor girl , she be not stand at the door , but sit in she little room . he stop he horse , and see through the window , on which the bright sun be shine , the girl sit at she spinning-wheel , busily spinning . she look up , and when she see that the prince be look in , she blush all over she face , let she eye fall , and go on spinning . I do not know whether , just at that moment , the thread be quite even ; but she go on spinning until the King 's son have ride away again . then she go to the window , open it , and say , `` it be so warm in this room ! '' but she still look after he as long as she could distinguish the white feather in he hat . then she sit down to work again in she own room and go on with she spinning , and a say which the old woman have often repeat when she be sit at she work , come into she mind , and she sing these word to herself , -- `` Spindle , my spindle , haste , haste thee away , and here to my house bring the wooer , I pray . '' and what do you think happen ? the spindle spring out of she hand in a instant , and out of the door , and when , in she astonishment , she get up and look after it , she see that it be dance out merrily into the open country , and draw a shine golden thread after it . before long , it have entirely vanish from she sight . as she have now no spindle , the girl take the weaver 's shuttle in she hand , sit down to she loom , and begin to weave . the spindle , however , dance continually onwards , and just as the thread come to a end , reach the prince . `` what do I see ? '' he cry ; `` the spindle certainly want to show I the way ! '' turn he horse about , and ride back with the golden thread . the girl be , however , sit at she work singing , `` Shuttle , my shuttle , weave well this day , and guide the wooer to I , I pray . '' immediately the shuttle spring out of she hand and out by the door . before the threshold , however , it begin to weave a carpet which be more beautiful than the eye of man have ever yet beheld . lily and rose blossom on both side of it , and on a golden ground in the center green branch ascend , under which bound hare and rabbit , stag and deer stretch they head in between they , brightly-coloured bird be sit in the branch above ; they lack nothing but the gift of song . the shuttle leap hither and thither , and everything seem to grow of its own accord . as the shuttle have run away , the girl sit down to sew . she hold the needle in she hand and sing , `` Needle , my needle , sharp-pointed and fine , prepare for a wooer this house of mine . '' then the needle leap out of she finger , and fly everywhere about the room as quick as lightning . it be just as if invisible spirit be work ; they cover table and bench with green cloth in a instant , and the chair with velvet , and hang the window with silken curtain . hardly have the needle put in the last stitch than the maiden saw through the window the white feather of the prince , whom the spindle have bring thither by the golden thread . he alight , step over the carpet into the house , and when he enter the room , there stand the maiden in she poor garment , but she shine out from within they like a rose surround by leaf . `` Thou art the poorest and also the richest , '' say he to she . `` come with I , thou shalt be my bride . '' she do not speak , but she give he she hand . then he give she a kiss , lead she forth , lift she on to he horse , and take she to the royal castle , where the wedding be solemnize with great rejoicing . the spindle , shuttle , and needle be preserve in the treasure-chamber , and hold in great honor .