the gold-giving SERPENT Indian Writer now in a certain place there live a Brahman name Haridatta . he be a farmer , but poor be the return he labor bring he . one day , at the end of the hot hour , the Brahman , overcome by the heat , lay down under the shadow of a tree to have a doze . suddenly he see a great hooded snake creep out of a ant-hill near at hand . so he think to himself , `` sure this be the guardian deity of the field , and I have not ever worship it . that be why my farming be in vain . I will at once go and pay my respects to it . '' when he have make up he mind , he get some milk , pour it into a bowl , and go to the ant-hill , and say aloud : `` O Guardian of this field ! all this while I do not know that you dwell here . that be why I have not yet pay my respects to you ; pray forgive I . '' and he lay the milk down and go to he house . next morning he come and look , and he see a gold denar in the bowl , and from that time onward every day the same thing occur he give milk to the serpent and find a gold denar . one day the Brahman have to go to the village , and so he order he son to take the milk to the ant-hill . the son bring the milk , put it down , and go back home . next day he go again and find a denar , so he think to himself : `` this ant-hill be surely full of golden denar ; I 'll kill the serpent , and take they all for myself . '' so next day , while he be give the milk to the serpent , the Brahman 's son strike it on the head with a cudgel . but the serpent escape death by the will of fate , and in a rage bit the Brahman 's son with its sharp fang , and he fall down dead at once . he people raise he a funeral pyre not far from the field and burnt he to ash . two day afterwards he father come back , and when he learn he son 's fate he grieve and mourn . but after a time , he take the bowl of milk , go to the ant-hill , and praise the serpent with a loud voice . after a long , long time the serpent appear , but only with its head out of the opening of the ant-hill , and speak to the Brahman : '' ` Tis greed that bring you here , and make you even forget the loss of you son . from this time forward friendship between we be impossible . you son strike I in youthful ignorance , and I have bite he to death . how can I forget the blow with the cudgel ? and how can you forget the pain and grief at the loss of you son ? '' so speaking , it give the Brahman a costly pearl and disappear . but before it go away it say : `` come back no more . '' the Brahman take the pearl , and go back home , cursing the folly of he son .