the SERVANT GIRL JUSTIFIED La Fontain BOCCACE alone be not my only source ; T ` another shop I now shall have recourse ; Though , certainly , this famed italian wit have many story for my purpose fit . but since of diff ` rent dish we should taste ; upon a ancient work my hand I have place ; where full a hundred narrative be tell , and various character we may behold ; from life , Navarre 's fair queen the fact relate ; my story int ` rest in she page create ; Beyond dispute from she we always find , simplicity with striking art combin 'd . yet , whether ` tis the queen who write , or not ; I shall , as usual , here and there allot whate'er addition requisite appear ; without such license I would not persevere , but quit , at once , narration of the sort ; some may be long , though other be too short . let we proceed , howe'er -lrb-B- we plan explain : -rrb-B- a pretty servant-girl a man retain 'd . she plea have he eye , and presently he think , with ease she might to be ` rous sport be bring ; he prov 'd not wrong ; the wench be blithe and gay , a buxom lass , most able ev ` ry way . AT dawn , one summer 's morn , the spark be lead to rise , and leave he wife asleep in bed ; he seek at once the garden , where he find the servant-girl collect flow ` r around , to make a nosegay for he better half , Whose birth-day 'twa : -- he soon begin to laugh , and while the range of the flow ` r he prai 'd , the servant 's neckerchief he slyly rai 'd . who , suddenly , on feeling of the hand , Resistance feign 'd , and seem would to make a stand ; but since these liberty be nothing new , they other fun and frolick would pursue ; the nosegay at the fond gallant be throw ; the flow ` r he kiss 'd , and now more ardent grown they romp 'd and rattl 'd , play 'd and skipt around ; at length the fair one fall upon the ground ; we be ` rous spark advantage take of this , and nothing with the couple seem 'd amiss . UNLUCKILY , a neighbour 's prying eye behold they playful prank with great surprise , she , from she window , could the scene o ` erlook ; when this the fond gallant observ 'd , he shake ; Said he , by heav ` n ! we frolicking be see , by that old haggard , envious , prying quean ; but do not heed it ; instantly he choose to run and wake he wife , who quickly rise ; -- so much the dame he fondl 'd and caress 'd , the garden walk she take at he request , to have a nosegay , where he play would anew PranksS just the same as those of recent view , which highly gratify we lady fair , who feel dispo would , and would at eve repair , to she good neighbor , whom she burst find , with what she would see that morn upon the ground . the usual greeting o ` er , we envious dame , with scowl brow exclaim 'd , -- my dear , you fame , I love too much not fully to detail , what I have witness , and with truth bewail ; Will you continue , in you house to keep a girl , whose conduct almost make I weep ? Anon I would kick she from you house , I say ; the strumpet should not stay another day . the wife reply , you surely be deceiv 'd ; a honest , virtuous creature she be believ 'd . well , I can easily , my friend , suppose , Rejoin have the neighbor , whence this favor flow ; but look about , and be convinc 'd , this morn from my own window -lrb-B- true as you be bear , -rrb-B- within the garden I you husband spus would and presently the servant girl I ey would ; at one another various flow ` r they throw , and then the minx a little graver grow . I understand you , cry the list ` ning fair ; you be deceiv 'd : -- myself alone be there . Neighbour but patience , if you please : attend I pray you have no conception what I mean to say : the playful fair be actively employ 'd , in pluck be ` rous flow ` r -- they kiss would and toy would . wife 'twa clearly I , howe'er , for she you take . Neighbour the flow ` r for bosom quickly they forsake ; large handful frequently they seem would to grasp , and ev ` ry beauty in its turn to clasp . wife but still , why think you , friend , it be not I ? have not you spouse with you a right to try what freak he like ? Neighbour but then , upon the ground this girl be throw , and never cry nor frown would ; you laugh . -- Wife indeed I do , 'twa myself . Neighbour A flannel petticoat display have the elf . wife 'twa mine : Neighbour be patient : -- and inform I , pray , if this be worn by you or she to-day ? there lie the point , for , if you 'll I believe , you husband do -- the most you can conceive . wife how hard of credence ! -- 'twa myself I vow . Neighbour oh ! that be conclusive ; I 'll be silent now ; Though truly I be lead to think , my eye be pretty sharp , and much I feel surprise at what you say ; in fact , I would have swear , I see they thus at romp this very morn ; excuse the hint , and do not turn she off . wife why , turn she off ? -- the very think I scoff ; she serve I well . Neighbour and so it seem be teach ; by all mean keep she then , since thus she be think .