the tale of the FLOPSY BUNNIES Beatrix Potter it be say that the effect of eat too much lettuce be `` soporific . '' _ I _ have never feel sleepy after eat lettuce ; but then _ I _ be not a rabbit . they certainly have a very soporific effect upon the Flopsy BunniesS ! when Benjamin Bunny grow up , he marry he Cousin Flopsy . they have a large family , and they be very improvident and cheerful . I do not remember the separate name of they child ; they be generally call the `` Flopsy BunniesS . '' as there be not always quite enough to eat , -- Benjamin use to borrow cabbage from Flopsy 's brother , Peter Rabbit , who keep a nursery garden . SOMETIMES Peter Rabbit have no cabbage to spare . when this happen , the Flopsy BunniesS go across the field to a rubbish heap , in the ditch outside Mr. McGregor 's garden . MR. McGREGOR be rubbish heap be a mixture . there be jam pot and paper bag , and mountain of chop grass from the mow machine -lrb-B- which always taste oily -rrb-B- , and some rotten vegetable marrow and a old boot or two . one day -- oh joy ! -- there be a quantity of overgrown lettuce , which have `` shoot '' into flower . the Flopsy BunniesS simply stuff lettuce . by degree , one after another , they be overcome with slumber , and lay down in the mown grass . Benjamin be not so much overcome as he child . before go to sleep he be sufficiently wide awake to put a paper bag over he head to keep off the fly . the little Flopsy BunniesS sleep delightfully in the warm sun . from the lawn beyond the garden come the distant clacketty sound of the mow machine . the blue - bottle buzz about the wall , and a little old mouse pick over the rubbish among the jam pot . -lrb-B- I can tell you she name , she be call Thomasina Tittlemouse , a woodmouse with a long tail . -rrb-B- SHE rustle across the paper bag , and awaken Benjamin Bunny . the mouse apologize profusely , and say that she know Peter Rabbit . while she and Benjamin be talk , close under the wall , they hear a heavy tread above they head ; and suddenly Mr. McGregor empty out a sackful of lawn mowing right upon the top of the sleep Flopsy BunniesS ! Benjamin shrink down under he paper bag . the mouse hide in a jam pot . the little rabbit smile sweetly in they sleep under the shower of grass ; they do not awake because the lettuce have be so soporific . they dream that they mother Flopsy be tuck they up in a hay bed . Mr. McGregor look down after empty he sack . he see some funny little brown tip of ear stick up through the lawn mowing . he stare at they for some time . PRESENTLY a fly settle on one of they and it move . Mr. McGregor climb down on to the rubbish heap -- `` one , two , three , four ! five ! six leetle rabbit ! '' say he as he drop they into he sack . the Flopsy Bunnies dream that they mother be turn they over in bed . they stir a little in they sleep , but still they do not wake up . MR. McGREGOR tie up the sack and leave it on the wall . he go to put away the mow machine . while he be go , Mrs. Flopsy Bunny -lrb-B- who have remain at home -rrb-B- come across the field . she look suspiciously at the sack and wonder where everybody be ? then the mouse come out of she jam pot , and Benjamin take the paper bag off he head , and they tell the doleful tale . Benjamin and Flopsy be in despair , they could not undo the string . but Mrs. Tittlemouse be a resourceful person . she nibble a hole in the bottom corner of the sack . the little rabbit be pull out and pinch to wake they . they parent stuff the empty sack with three rotten vegetable marrow , a old blacking-brush and two decayed turnip . then they all hide under a bush and watch for Mr. McGregor . MR. McGREGOR come back and pick up the sack , and carry it off . he carry it hang down , as if it be rather heavy . the Flopsy BunniesS follow at a safe distance . THEY watch he go into he house . and then they creep up to the window to listen . MR. McGREGOR throw down the sack on the stone floor in a way that would have be extremely painful to the Flopsy BunniesS , if they have happen to have be inside it . they could hear he drag he chair on the flag , and chuckle -- `` one , two , three , four , five , six leetle rabbit ! '' say Mr. McGregor . `` eh ? what be that ? what have they be spoil now ? '' enquire Mrs. McGregor . `` one , two , three , four , five , six leetle fat rabbit ! '' repeat Mr. McGregor , count on he finger -- `` one , two , three -- '' `` do not you be silly ; what do you mean , you silly old man ? '' `` in the sack ! one , two , three , four , five , six ! '' reply Mr. McGregor . -lrb-B- the youngest Flopsy Bunny get upon the window-sill . -rrb-B- MRS. McGREGOR take hold of the sack and feel it . she say she could feel six , but they must be OLD rabbit , because they be so hard and all different shape . `` not fit to eat ; but the skin will do fine to line my old cloak . '' `` Line you old cloak ? '' shout Mr. McGregor -- `` I shall sell they and buy myself baccy ! '' `` rabbit tobacco ! I shall skin they and cut off they head . '' MRS. McGREGOR untie the sack and put she hand inside . when she feel the vegetable she become very very angry . she say that Mr. McGregor have `` do it a purpose . '' and Mr. McGregor be very angry too . one of the rotten marrow come fly through the kitchen window , and hit the youngest Flopsy Bunny . it be rather hurt . THEN Benjamin and Flopsy think that it be time to go home . so Mr. McGregor do not get he tobacco , and Mrs. McGregor do not get she rabbit skin . but next Christmas Thomasina Tittlemouse get a present of enough rabbit-wool to make herself a cloak and a hood , and a handsome muff and a pair of warm mitten . the end