the OLD GRAVESTONE H. C. Andersen in a little provincial town , in the time of the year when people say `` the evening be draw in , '' there be one evening quite a social gathering in the home of a father of a family . the weather be still mild and warm . the lamp gleam on the table ; the long curtain hang down in fold before the open window , by which stand many flower-pots ; and outside , beneath the dark blue sky , be the most beautiful moonshine . but they be not talk about this . they be talk about the old great stone which lay below in the courtyard , close by the kitchen door , and on which the maid often lay the clean copper kitchen utensil that they might dry in the sun , and where the child be fond of playing . it be , in fact , a old gravestone . `` yes , '' say the master of the house , `` I believe the stone come from the old convent churchyard ; for from the church yonder , the pulpit , the memorial board , and the gravestone be sell . my father buy the latter , and they be cut in two to be use as paving-stones ; but that old stone be keep back , and have be lie in the courtyard ever since . '' -lrb-B- Illustration : PREBEN SCHWANE and he wife MARTHA . aaaaa -rrb-B- aaa `` one can very well see that it be a gravestone , '' observe the eldest of the child ; `` we can still decipher on it a hour-glass and a piece of a angel ; but the inscription which stand below it be quite effaced , except that you may read the name of _ Preben _ , and a great _ S _ close behind it , and a little farther down the name of _ Martha _ . but nothing more can be distinguish , and even that be only plain when it have be rain , or when we have wash the stone . `` on my word , that must be the gravestone of Preben Schwane and he wife ! '' these word be speak by a old man ; so old , that he might well have be the grandfather of all who be present in the room . `` yes , they be one of the last pair that be bury in the old churchyard of the convent . they be a honest old couple . I can remember they from the day of my boyhood . every one know they , and every one esteem they . they be the oldest pair here in the town . the people declare that they have more than a tubful of gold ; and yet they go about very plainly dress , in the coarsest stuff , but always with splendidly clean linen . they be a fine old pair , Preben and Martha ! when both of they sit on the bench at the top of the steep stone stair in front of the house , with the old linden tree spread its branch above they , and nod at one in they kind gentle way , it seem quite to do one good . they be very kind to the poor ; they feed they and clothe they ; and there be judgment in they benevolence and true Christianity . the old woman die first : that day be still quite clear before my mind . I be a little boy , and have accompany my father over there , and we be just there when she fall asleep . the old man be very much move , and weep like a child . the corpse lay in the room next to the one where we sit ; and he speak to my father and to a few neighbor who be there , and say how lonely it would be now in he house , and how good and faithful she -lrb-B- he dead wife -rrb-B- have be , how many year they have wander together through life , and how it have come about that they come to know each other and to fall in love . I be , as I have tell you , a boy , and only stand by and listen to what the other say ; but it fill I with quite a strange emotion to listen to the old man , and to watch how he cheek gradually flush red when he speak of the day of they courtship , and tell how beautiful she be , and how many little innocent pretext he have invent to meet she . and then he talk of the wedding-day , and he eye gleam ; he seem to talk himself back into that time of joy . and yet she be lie in the next room -- dead -- a old woman ; and he be a old man , speaking of the past day of hope ! yes , yes , thus it be ! then I be but a child , and now I be old -- as old as Preben Schwane be then . Time pass away , and all thing change . I can very well remember the day when she be bury , and how Preben Schwane walk close behind the coffin . a few year before , the couple have cause they gravestone to be prepare , and they name to be engrave on it , with the inscription , all but the date . in the evening the stone be take to the churchyard , and lay over the grave ; and the year afterwards it be take up , that old Preben Schwane might be lay to rest beside he wife . they do not leave behind they anything like the wealth people have attribute to they : what there be go to family distantly relate to they -- to people of whom until then one have know nothing . the old wooden house , with the seat at the top of the step , beneath the lime tree , be take down by the corporation ; it be too old and rotten to be leave standing . afterwards , when the same fate befall the convent church , and the graveyard be level , Preben 's and Martha 's tombstone be sell , like everything else , to any one who would buy it ; and that be how it have happen that this stone be not hew in two , as many another have be , but that it still lie below in the yard as a scouring-bench for the maid and a plaything for the child . the high-road now go over the resting-place of old Preben and he wife . no one think of they any more . '' and the old man who have tell all this shake he head scornfully . `` forget ! everything will be forget ! '' he say . and then they speak in the room of other thing ; but the youngest child , a boy with great serious eye , mount up on a chair behind the window-curtains , and look out into the yard , where the moon be pour its radiance over the old stone -- the old stone that have always appear to he so tame and flat , but which lay there now like a great leaf out of a book of chronicle . all that the boy have hear about old Preben and he wife seem concentrate in the stone ; and he gaze at it , and look at the pure bright moon and up into the clear air , and it seem as though the countenance of the Creator be beam over he world . `` forget ! everything will be forget ! '' be repeat in the room . but in that moment a invisible angel kiss the boy 's forehead , and whisper to he : `` preserve the seed-corn that have be entrust to thee , that it may bear fruit . Guard it well ! through thee , my child , the obliterated inscription on the old tombstone shall be chronicle in golden letter to future generation ! the old pair shall wander again arm-in-arm through the street , and smile , and sit with they fresh healthy face under the lime tree on the bench by the steep stair , and nod at rich and poor . the seed-corn of this hour shall ripen in the course of time to a bloom poem . the beautiful and the good shall not be forget ; it shall live on in legend and in song . ''