the story of ZOBEIDE TOLD BY HERSELF Arabian Writer the following story be one of the strangest that ever be hear . two black dog long dwell with I in my house , and be very affectionately disposed towards I . these two black dog and myself be sister , and I shall acquaint you by what strange accident they come to be metamorphose . after we father 's death , the estate that he leave be equally divide among we . my two sister and myself stay with we mother , who be still alive , and when she die she leave each of we a thousand sequin . as soon as we receive we portion , the two elder -lrb-B- for I be the youngest -rrb-B- , be marry , follow they husband and leave I alone . some time after , my eldest sister 's husband sell all that he have , and with that money and my sister 's portion they both go into Africa , where she husband , by riotous living , spend all ; and find himself reduce to poverty , he find a pretext for divorce my sister , and send she away . she return to this city , and , have suffer incredible hardship by the way , come to I in so lamentable a condition that it would have move the hardest heart to compassion . I receive she with all the tenderness she could expect , and on my inquire into the cause of she sad condition , she tell I with tear how inhumanly she husband have deal with she . I be so much concern at she misfortune that it draw tear from my eye : I clothe she with my own apparel , and speak to she thus : ` sister , you be the elder , and I esteem you as my mother : during you absence , God have bless the portion that fall to my share , and the employment I follow of feeding and bring up silk-worms . assure yourself that there be nothing I have but be at you service , and as much at you disposal as my own . ' we live very comfortably together for some month ; and one day as we be discourse together about we third sister , and wonder we hear no news of she , she come home in as bad a condition as the elder ; she husband have treat she after the same manner : and I receive she likewise with the same affection as I have do the other . some time after , my two sister , on the ground that they would not be a expense to I , tell I they intend to marry again . I answer they , that if they put I to expense be all the reason they might lay those thought aside , and be very welcome to stay with I ; for what I have would be sufficient to maintain we all three in a manner suitable to we condition . ` but , ' say I , ' I rather believe you have a mind to marry again . if you do , I be sure it will very much surprise I : after the experience you have have of the small satisfaction there be in marriage , be it possible you dare venture a second time ? you know how rare it be to meet with a husband that be a really honest man . Believe what I say , and let we live together as comfortably as we can . ' all my persuasion be in vain ; they be resolve to marry , and so they do . but after some month be past they come back again , and beg my pardon a thousand time for not follow my advice . ` you be we youngest sister , ' say they , ` and much wiser than we ; but if you will vouchsafe to receive we once more into you house and account we you slave , we shall never commit such a fault again . ' my answer be , ` dear sister , I have not altered my mind with respect to you since we last part from one another ; come again and take part of what I have . ' upon this I embrace they again , and we live together as we do formerly . we continue thus a whole year in perfect love and tranquillity ; and see that God have increase my small stock , I project a voyage by sea , to hazard somewhat by trade . to this end I go with my two sister to Balsora , where I buy a ship ready fit for sea , and lade she with such merchandise as I bring from Bagdad . we set sail with a fair wind , and soon clear the persian gulf ; and when we get into the ocean we steer we course to the Indies , and on the twentieth day see land . it be a very high mountain , at the foot of which we see a great town , and have a fresh wind we soon reach the harbor , where we cast anchor . I have not patience to stay till my sister be ready to go with I , but go ashore in the boat by myself ; and , make directly for the gate of the town , I see there a great number of man on guard , some sit and other standing , with stick in they hand ; and they have all such dreadful countenance that it frighten I ; but perceive they have no motion , not so much as with they eye , I take courage , and go nearer , and then find they be all turn into stone . I enter the town and pass through the several street , wherein man stand everywhere in various attitude , but all motionless and petrified . on that side where the merchant live I find most of the shop shut , and in such as be open I likewise find the people petrified . I look up to the chimney , but see no smoke ; which make I conjecture that the inhabitant both within and without be all turn into stone . be come into a vast square in the heart of the city , I perceive a great gate cover with plate of gold , the two door of which stand open , and a curtain of silk stuff seem to be draw before it ; I also see a lamp hanging over the gate . after I have well consider , I make no doubt but that it be the palace of the prince who reign over that country ; and be very much astonished that I have not meet with one living creature , I go thither in hope to find some one . I enter the gate , and be still more surprised when I see none but the guard in the porch , all petrified , some standing , some sit , and some lie . I cross over a large court where I see a stately building just before I , the window of which be enclose with gate of massive gold : I suppose it to be the queen 's apartment , and go into a large hall , where there stand several black chamberlain turn into stone . I go from thence into a room richly hung and furnished , where I perceive a lady . I know it to be the queen by the crown of gold that hang over she head , and a necklace of pearl about she neck , each of they as big as a nut ; I go up close to she to view it , and never behold a finer sight . I stand some time and admire the riches and magnificence of the room ; but above all , the footcloth , the cushion and the sofa , which be all line with indian stuff or gold , with picture of man and beast in silver admirably execute . I go out of the chamber where the petrified queen be , and pass through several other apartment richly furnish , and at last come into a vast room , where be a throne of massive gold , raise several step above the floor and enrich with large emerald , and a bed upon the throne of rich stuff embroider with pearl . what surprise I more than all the rest be a sparkling light which come from above the bed . be curious to know from whence it come , I mount the step , and lift up my head , I see a diamond , as big as the egg of a ostrich , lie upon a low stool ; it be so pure that I could not find the least blemish in it , and it sparkle so brightly that I could not endure the lustre of it when I see it by daylight . on each side of the bed 's head there stand a light torch , but for what use I could not comprehend ; however , it make I imagine that there be some living creature in this place , for I could not believe that these torch continue thus burning of themselves . the door be all open , or but half shut , I survey some other apartment that be as fine as those I have already see . I look into the office and store-rooms , which be full of infinite riches , and I be so much take with the sight of all the wonderful thing that I forget myself ; and do not think of my ship or my sister ; my whole design be to satisfy my curiosity . meantime night come on , which put I in mind that it be time to retire . I be for return by the way I come in , but I could not find it ; I lose myself among the apartment ; and find I be come back again to that large room where the throne , the couch , the large diamond , and the torch stand , I resolve to take my night 's lodge there , and to depart the next morning betime , to get aboard my ship . I lay myself down upon the couch , not without some dread of be alone in a desolate place ; and this fear hinder my sleep . about midnight I hear a voice like that of a man read the Koran , after the same manner and in the same tone as we read in we mosque . be extremely glad to hear it , I get up immediately , and , take a torch in my hand to light I , I pass from one chamber to another on that side where the voice come from : I come to a door , where I stand still , nowise doubting that it come from thence . I set down my torch upon the ground , and look through a window I find it to be a oratory . in short , it have , as we have in we mosque , a niche that show where we must turn to say we prayer ; there be also lamp hang up , and two candlestick with large taper of white wax burning . I see a little carpet lay down , like those we have to kneel upon when we say we prayer , and a comely young man sit upon this carpet , read with great devotion the Koran , which lay before he upon a desk . at the sight of this I be transport with wonder . I wonder how it come to pass that he should be the only living creature in a town where all the people be turn into stone , and I do not doubt but that there be something in it very extraordinary . the door be only half shut , I open it and go in , and stand upright before the niche , I say this prayer aloud : ` praise be to God , who have favor we with a happy voyage , and may he be graciously pleased to protect we in the same manner until we arrive again in we own country . hear I , O Lord , and grant my request . ' the young man cast he eye upon I , and say , ` my good lady , pray let I know who you be , and what have bring you to this desolate city ; and , in return , I will tell you who I be , what happen to I , why the inhabitant of this city be reduce to that state you see they in , and why I alone be safe and sound in the midst of such a terrible disaster . ' I tell he in few word from whence I come , what make I undertake the voyage , and how I have safely arrive at the port after twenty day ' sailing ; and when I have do I pray he to fulfil he promise , and tell he how much I be strike by the frightful desolation which I have see in all place as I come along . ` my dear lady , ' say the young man , ` have patience for a moment . ' at these word he shut the Koran , put it into a rich case , and lay it in the niche . I take that opportunity of observe he , and perceive so much good-nature and beauty in he that I feel strange emotion . he make I sit down by he ; and before he begin he discourse I could not forbear say to he , ` Sir , I can scarcely have patience to wait for a account of all those wonderful thing that I have see since the first time I come into you city ; and my curiosity can not be satisfy too soon : therefore pray , sir , let I know by what miracle you alone be leave alive among so many person that have die in so strange a manner . ' ` Madam , ' say the young man , ` you have give I to understand that you have a knowledge of the true God by the prayer you have just now address to he . I will acquaint you with the most remarkable effect of he greatness and power . you must know that this city be the metropolis of a mighty kingdom , over which the king , my father , do reign . he , he whole court , the inhabitant of the city , and all he other subject be magi , worshipper of fire , and of Nardoun , the ancient king of the giant , who rebel against God . ` and though I have a idolatrous father and mother , I have the good fortune in my youth to have a governess who be a good mussulman ; I learn the Koran by heart , and understand the explanation of it perfectly . `` dear prince , '' would she oftentime say , `` there be but one true God ; take heed that you do not acknowledge and adore any other . '' she teach I to read Arabic , and the book she give I to practice upon be the Koran . as soon as I be capable of understand it , she explain to I all the head of this excellent book , and infuse piety into my mind , unknown to my father or anybody else . she happen to die , but not before she have instruct I in all that be necessary to convince I of the truth of the Mussulman religion . after she death I persist with constancy in this belief ; and I abhor the false god Nardoun , and the adoration of fire . ` it be about three year and some month ago that a thunder voice be hear , all of a sudden , so distinctly , through the whole city that nobody could miss hear it . the word be these : `` InhabitantsS , abandon the worship of Nardoun , and of fire , and worship the only God that show mercy . '' ` this voice be hear for three year successively , but nobody be convert : so on the last day of the year , at four o'clock in the morning , all the inhabitant be change in a instant into stone , every one in the same condition and posture they happen to be then in . the king , my father , have the same fate , for he be metamorphose into a black stone , as he be to be see in this palace ; and the queen , my mother , have the like destiny . ` I be the only person that do not suffer under that heavy judgment , and ever since I have continue to serve God with more fervency than before . I be persuade , dear lady , that he have send you hither for my comfort , for which I render he infinite thanks ; for I must own that this solitary life be very unpleasant . ' ` Prince , ' say I , ` there be no doubt that Providence hath bring I into you port to present you with a opportunity of withdraw from this dismal place . the ship that I come in may in some measure persuade you that I be in some esteem at Bagdad , where I have also leave a considerable estate ; and I dare engage to promise you sanctuary there , until the mighty Commander of the Faithful , who be vice-regent to we Prophet , whom you acknowledge , show you the honor that be due to you merit . this renowned prince life at Bagdad , and as soon as he be inform of you arrival in he capital , you will find that it be not vain to implore he assistance . it be impossible you can stay any longer in a city where all the object you see must renew you grief : my vessel be at you service , where you may absolutely command as you think fit . ' he accept the offer , and we discourse the remain part of the night about we sailing . as soon as it be day we leave the palace , and come aboard my ship , where we find my sister , the captain , and the slave , all very much trouble at my absence . after I have present my sister to the prince , I tell they what have hinder my return to the vessel the day before , how I have meet with the young prince , he story , and the cause of the desolation of so fine a city . the seaman be take up several day in unlade the merchandise I have bring with I , and embark instead all the precious thing in the palace , jewel , gold and money . we leave the furniture and goods , which consist of a infinite quantity of plate , etc. , because we vessel could not carry it , for it would have require several vessel more to carry all the riches to Bagdad that we might have choose to take with we . after we have laden the vessel with what we think fit , we take such provision and water aboard as be necessary for we voyage -lrb-B- for we have still a great deal of those provision leave that we have take in at Balsora -rrb-B- : at last we set sail with a wind as favourable as we could wish . the young prince , my sister and myself enjoy ourselves for some time very agreeably ; but alas ! this good understanding do not last long , for my sister grow jealous of the friendship between the prince and I , and maliciously ask I one day what we should do with he when we come to Bagdad . I perceive immediately why they put this question to I ; therefore , resolve to put it off with a jest , I answer they , ` I will take he for my husband ' ; and upon that , turn myself to the prince , ` Sir , ' say I , ` I humbly beg of you to give you consent ; for as soon as we come to bagdad I design to do you all the service that be in my power and to resign myself wholly to you command . ' the prince answer , ` I know not , madam , whether you be in jest or no ; but for my own part I seriously declare , before these lady you sister , that from this moment I heartily accept you offer , as my lady and mistress . nor will I pretend to have any power over you action . ' at these word my sister change color , and I could perceive afterwards that they do not love I as formerly . we have come into the Persian Gulf , not far from Balsora , where I hope , consider the fair wind , we might arrive the day follow ; but in the night , when I be asleep , my sister watch they time and throw I overboard . they do the same to the prince , who be drown . I swim for some minute in the water ; but by good fortune , or rather miracle , I soon feel ground . I go towards a black place , that , so far as I could discern in the dark , seem to be land , and actually be a flat on the coast . when day come , I find it to be a desert island , lie about twenty mile from Balsora . I soon dry my clothes in the sun ; and as I walk along I find several sort of fruit , and likewise fresh water , which give I some hope of preserve my life . I lay myself down in the shade and soon after I see a wing serpent , very large and long , come towards I , wriggle to the right and to the left , and hang out he tongue , which make I think he be ill. . I arise , and see a larger serpent follow he , hold he by the tail , and endeavor to devour he . I have compassion on he , and instead of fly away , I have the boldness and courage to take up a stone that by chance lay by I , and throw it with all my strength at the great serpent , whom I hit on the head , and kill he . the other , find himself at liberty , take to he wing and fly away . I look a long while after he in the air , as a extraordinary thing ; but he fly out of sight , and I lay down again in another place in the shade , and fall asleep . when I awake , judge how surprised I be to see by I a black woman , of lively and agreeable look , who hold , tie together in she hand , two dog of the same color . I sit up and ask she who she be . ' I be , ' say she , ` the serpent whom you deliver not long since from my mortal enemy . I know not how to acknowledge the great kindness you do I , but by do what I have do . I know the treachery of you sister , and , to revenge you on they , as soon as I be set at liberty by you generous assistance I call several of my companion together , fairy like myself . we have carry into you storehouse at Bagdad all you lading that be in you vessel , and afterwards sink it . ` these two black dog be you sister , whom I have transform into this shape . but this punishment be not sufficient ; for I will have you treat they after such a manner as I shall direct . ' at those word the fairy take I fast under one of she arm , and the two dog in the other , and carry I to my house in Bagdad , where I find in my storehouse all the riches which be laden on board my vessel . before she leave I she deliver the two dog , and tell I , ` if you will not be change into a dog as they be , I order you to give each of you sister every night a hundred lash with a rod , for the punishment of the crime they have commit against you person and the young prince whom they drown . ' I be force to promise that I would obey she order . for many month I whip they every night , though with regret . I give evidence by my tear with how much sorrow and reluctance I must perform this cruel duty . now the fairy have leave with I a bundle of hair , say withal that she presence would one day be of use to I ; and then , if I only burnt two tuft of this hair , she would be with I in a moment , though she be beyond Mount Caucasus . desirous at length to see the fairy and beg she to restore the two black dog , my sister , to they proper shape , I cause fire one day to be bring in , and throw the whole bundle of hair into it . the house begin to shake at that very instant , and the fairy appear in the form of a lady very richly dress . I beseech she , with every form of entreaty I could employ , to restore my sister to they natural shape , and to release I from the cruel duty that I have always unwillingly perform . the fairy at length consent , and desire a bowl of water to be bring ; she pronounce over it some word which I do not understand , and then sprinkle the water upon the dog . they immediately become two lady of surprising beauty , and I recognize in they the sister to whose human form I have so long be a stranger . they soon after marry the son of king , and live happily for the rest of they life .