the wind tell ABOUT WALDEMAR DAA and he daughter . H. C. Andersen when the wind sweep across the grass , the field have a ripple like a pond , and when it sweep across the corn the field wave to and fro like a high sea . that be call the wind 's dance ; but the wind do not dance only , he also tell story ; and how loudly he can sing out of he deep chest , and how different it sound in the tree-tops in the forest , and through the loophole and cleft and crack in wall ! Do you see how the wind drive the cloud up yonder , like a frightened flock of sheep ? do you hear how the wind howl down here through the open valley , like a watchman blow he horn ? with wonderful tone he whistle and scream down the chimney and into the fireplace . the fire crackle and flare up , and shine far into the room , and the little place be warm and snug , and it be pleasant to sit there listen to the sound . let the wind speak , for he know plenty of story and fairy tale , many more than be know to any of we . just hear what the wind can tell . Huh -- uh -- ush ! roar along ! that be the burden of the song . `` by the shore of the Great Belt , one of the strait that unite the Cattegut with the Baltic , lie a old mansion with thick red wall , '' say the Wind . `` I know every stone in it ; I see it when it still belong to the castle of Marsk Stig on the promontory . but it have to be pull down , and the stone be use again for the wall of a new mansion in another place , the baronial mansion of Borreby , which still stand by the coast . `` I know they , the noble lord and lady , the change race that dwell there , and now I be go to tell about Waldemar Daa and he daughter . how proudly he carry himself -- he be of royal blood ! he could do more than merely hunt the stag and empty the wine-can . ` it _ shall _ be do , ' he be accustom to say . `` he wife walk proudly in gold-embroidered garment over the polished marble floor . the tapestry be gorgeous , the furniture be expensive and artistically carve . she have bring gold and silver plate with she into the house , and there be german beer in the cellar . Black fiery horse neigh in the stable . there be a wealthy look about the house of Borreby at that time , when wealth be still at home there . `` four child dwell there also ; three delicate maiden , Ida , Joanna , and Anna Dorothea : I have never forget they name . `` they be rich people , noble people , bear in affluence , nurture in affluence . `` Huh -- sh ! roar along ! '' sing the Wind ; and then he continue : `` I do not see here , as in other great noble house , the high-born lady sit among she woman in the great hall turn the spinning-wheel : here she sweep the sound chord of the cithern , and sing to the sound , but not always old danish melody , but song of a strange land . it be ` live and let live ' here : stranger guest come from far and near , the music sound , the goblet clash , and I be not able to drown the noise , '' say the Wind . `` ostentation , and haughtiness , and splendor , and display , and rule be there , but the fear of the Lord be not there . `` and it be just on the evening of the first day of May , '' the Wind continue . `` I come from the west , and have see how the ship be be crush by the wave , with all on board , and flung on the west coast of Jutland . I have hurry across the heath , and over Jutland 's wood-girt eastern coast , and over the Island of Fuenen , and now I drive over the Great Belt , groan and sigh . `` then I lay down to rest on the shore of Seeland , in the neighborhood of the great house of Borreby , where the forest , the splendid oak forest , still rise . `` the young men-servants of the neighborhood be collect branch and brushwood under the oak tree ; the largest and driest they could find they carry into the village , and pile they up in a heap , and set they on fire ; and man and maid dance , sing in a circle round the blaze pile . `` I lay quite quiet , '' continue the Wind ; `` but I silently touch a branch , which have be bring by the handsomest of the men-servants , and the wood blaze up brightly , blaze up higher than all the rest ; and now he be the choose one , and bear the name the street-goat , and might choose he street-lamb first from among the maid ; and there be mirth and rejoicing , greater than I have ever hear before in the hall of the rich baronial mansion . `` and the noble lady drive towards the baronial mansion , with she three daughter , in a gilded carriage draw by six horse . the daughter be young and fair -- three charming blossom , rise , lily , and pale hyacinth . the mother be a proud tulip , and never acknowledge the salutation of one of the man or maid who pause in they sport to do she honor : the gracious lady seem a flower that be rather stiff in the stalk . `` Rose , lily , and pale hyacinth ; yes , I see they all three ! whose lambkin will they one day become ? thought I ; they street-goat will be a gallant knight , perhaps a prince . Huh -- sh ! hurry along ! hurry along ! `` yes , the carriage roll on with they , and the peasant people resume they dancing . they ride that summer through all the village round about . but in the night , when I rise again , '' say the Wind , `` the very noble lady lay down , to rise again no more : that thing come upon she which come upon all -- there be nothing new in that . `` Waldemar Daa stand for a space silent and thoughtful . ` the proudest tree can be bow without be break , ' say a voice within he . he daughter weep , and all the people in the mansion wipe they eye ; but Lady Daa have drive away -- and I drive away too , and rush along , huh -- sh ! '' say the Wind . `` I return again ; I often return again over the Island of Fuenen , and the shore of the Belt , and I sit down by Borreby , by the splendid oak wood ; there the heron make he nest , and wood-pigeons haunt the place , and blue raven , and even the black stork . it be still spring ; some of they be yet sit on they egg , other have already hatch they young . but how they fly up , how they cry ! the axe sound , blow on blow : the wood be to be fell . Waldemar Daa want to build a noble ship , a man-of-war , a three-decker , which the king would be sure to buy ; and therefore the wood must be fell , the landmark of the seaman , the refuge of the bird . the hawk start up and fly away , for its nest be destroy ; the heron and all the bird of the forest become homeless , and fly about in fear and in anger : I could well understand how they feel . crow and raven croak aloud as if in scorn . ` crack , crack ! the nest crack , crack , crack ! ' `` far in the interior of the wood , where the noisy swarm of labourer be work , stand Waldemar Daa and he three daughter ; and all laugh at the wild cry of the bird ; only one , the youngest , Anna Dorothea , feel grieve in she heart ; and when they make preparation to fall a tree that be almost dead , and on whose naked branch the black stork have build he nest , whence the little stork be stretch out they head , she beg for mercy for the little thing , and tear come into she eye . therefore the tree with the black stork 's nest be leave standing . the tree be not worth speaking of . `` there be a great hewing and sawing , and a three-decker be build . the architect be of low origin , but of great pride ; he eye and forehead tell how clever he be , and Waldemar Daa be fond of listen to he , and so be Waldemar 's daughter Ida , the eldest , who be now fifteen year old ; and while he build a ship for the father , he be build for himself a airy castle , into which he and Ida be to go as a married couple -- which might indeed have happen , if the castle with stone wall , and rampart , and moat have remain . but in spite of he wise head , the architect remain but a poor bird ; and , indeed , what business have a sparrow to take part in a dance of peacock ? Huh -- sh ! I career away , and he career away too , for he be not allow to stay ; and little Ida get over it , because she be oblige to get over it . `` the proud black horse be neigh in the stable ; they be worth look at , and accordingly they _ be _ look at . the admiral , who have be send by the king himself to inspect the new ship and take measure for its purchase , speak loudly in admiration of the beautiful horse . `` I hear all that , '' say the Wind . `` I accompany the gentleman through the open door , and strew blade of straw like bar of gold before they foot . Waldemar Daa want to have gold , and the admiral wish for the proud black horse , and that be why he praise they so much ; but the hint be not take , and consequently the ship be not buy . it remain on the shore cover over with board , a Noah 's ark that never get to the water -- Huh -- sh ! rush away ! away ! -- and that be a pity . `` in the winter , when the field be cover with snow , and the water with large block of ice that I blow up on to the coast , '' continue the Wind , `` crow and raven come , all as black as might be , great flock of they , and alight on the dead , desert , lonely ship by the shore , and croak in hoarse accent of the wood that be no more , of the many pretty bird 's nest destroy , and the little one leave without a home ; and all for the sake of that great bit of lumber , that proud ship that never sail forth . `` I make the snow-flakes whirl , and the snow lay like a great lake high around the ship , and drift over it . I let it hear my voice , that it might know what a storm have to say . certainly I do my part towards teaching it seamanship . Huh -- sh ! push along ! `` and the winter pass away ; winter and summer , both pass away , and they be still pass away , even as I pass away ; as the snow whirl along , and the apple blossom whirl along , and the leaf fall -- away ! away ! away ! and man be pass away too ! `` but the daughter be still young , and little Ida be a rose , as fair to look upon as on the day when the architect see she . I often seize she long brown hair , when she stand in the garden by the apple tree , musing , and not heed how I strew blossom on she hair , and loosen it , while she be gaze at the red sun and the golden sky , through the dark underwood and the tree of the garden . `` she sister be bright and slender as a lily . Joanna have height and deportment , but be like she mother , rather stiff in the stalk . she be very fond of walk through the great hall , where hang the portrait of she ancestor . the woman be paint in dress of silk and velvet , with a tiny little hat , embroider with pearl , on they plaited hair . they be handsome woman . the gentleman be represent clad in steel , or in costly cloak line with squirrel 's skin ; they wear little ruff , and sword at they side , but not buckle to they hip . where would Joanna 's picture find its place on that wall some day ? and how would _ he _ look , she noble lord and husband ? this be what she think of , and of this she speak softly to herself . I hear it , as I sweep into the long hall , and turn round to come out again . `` Anna Dorothea , the pale hyacinth , a child of fourteen , be quiet and thoughtful ; she great deep blue eye have a musing look , but the childlike smile still play around she lip : I be not able to blow it away , nor do I wish to do so . `` we meet in the garden , in the hollow lane , in the field and meadow ; she gather herb and flower which she know would be useful to she father in concoct the drink and drop he distil . Waldemar Daa be arrogant and proud , but he be also a learn man , and know a great deal . that be no secret , and many opinion be express concern it . in he chimney there be fire even in summer time . he would lock the door of he room , and for day the fire would be poke and rake ; but of this he do not talk much -- the force of nature must be conquer in silence ; and soon he would discover the art of make the best thing of all -- the red gold . `` that be why the chimney be always smoking , therefore the flame crackle so frequently . yes , I be there too , '' say the Wind . `` let it go , I sing down through the chimney : it will end in smoke , air , coal and ash ! you will burn yourself ! hu-uh-ush ! drive away ! drive away ! but Waldemar Daa do _ not _ drive it away . '' `` the splendid black horse in the stable -- what become of they ? what become of the old gold and silver vessel in cupboard and chest , the cow in the field , and the house and home itself ? yes , they may melt , may melt in the golden crucible , and yet yield no gold . `` empty grow the barn and store-rooms , the cellar and magazine . the servant decrease in number , and the mouse multiply . then a window break , and then another , and I could get in elsewhere besides at the door , '' say the Wind . '' ` where the chimney smoke the meal be be cook , ' the proverb say . but here the chimney smoke that devour all the meal , for the sake of the red gold . `` I blow through the courtyard-gate like a watchman blow he horn , '' the Wind go on , `` but no watchman be there . I twirl the weathercock round on the summit of the tower , and it creak like the snore of the warder , but no warder be there ; only mouse and rat be there . poverty lay the tablecloth ; poverty sit in the wardrobe and in the larder ; the door fall off its hinge , crack and fissure make they appearance , and I go in and out at pleasure ; and that be how I know all about it . `` amid smoke and ash , amid sorrow and sleepless night , the hair and beard of the master turn gray , and deep furrow show themselves around he temple ; he skin turn pale and yellow , as he eye look greedily for the gold , the desire gold . `` I blow the smoke and ash into he face and beard : the result of he labor be debt instead of pelf . I sing through the burst window-panes and the yawning cleft in the wall . I blow into the chest of drawer belong to the daughter , wherein lay the clothes that have become fade and threadbare from be worn over and over again . that be not the song that have be sing at the child 's cradle . the lordly life have change to a life of penury . I be the only one who rejoice aloud in that castle , '' say the Wind . `` I snow they up , and they say snow keep people warm . they have no wood , and the forest from which they might have bring it be cut down . it be a biting frost . I rush in through loophole and passage , over gable and roof , that I might be brisk . they be lie in bed because of the cold , the three high-born daughter ; and they father be crouch under he leathern coverlet . nothing to bite , nothing to break , no fire on the hearth -- there be a life for high-born people ! huh-sh , let it go ! but that be what my Lord Daa could _ not _ do -- he could _ not _ let it go . '' ` after winter come spring , ' he say . ` after want , good time will come : one must not lose patience ; one must learn to wait ! now my house and land be mortgage , it be indeed high time ; and the gold will soon come . at Easter ! ' `` I hear how he speak thus , look at a spider 's web . ` Thou cunning little weaver , thou dost teach I perseverance . let they tear thy web , and thou wilt begin it again , and complete it . let they destroy it again , and thou wilt resolutely begin to work again -- again ! that be what we must do , and that will repay itself at last . ' `` it be the morning of easter-day . the bell sound from the neighbouring church , and the sun seem to rejoice in the sky . the master have watch through the night in feverish excitement , and have be melt and cool , distil and mix . I hear he sigh like a soul in despair ; I hear he pray , and I notice how he hold he breath . the lamp be burn out , but he do not notice it . I blow at the fire of coal , and it throw its red glow upon he ghastly white face , light it up with a glare , and he sunken eye look forth wildly out of they deep socket -- but they become larger and larger , as though they would burst . `` look at the alchymic glass ! it glow in the crucible , red-hot , and pure and heavy ! he lift it with a tremble hand , and cry with a tremble voice , ` gold ! gold ! ' `` he be quite dizzy -- I could have blow he down , '' say the Wind ; `` but I only fan the glowing coal , and accompany he through the door to where he daughter sit shiver . he coat be powdered with ash , and there be ash in he beard and in he tangled hair . he stand straight up , and hold he costly treasure on high , in the brittle glass . ` found , find ! -- Gold , gold ! ' he shout , and again hold aloft the glass to let it flash in the sunshine ; but he hand tremble , and the alchymic glass fall clatter to the ground , and break into a thousand piece ; and the last bubble of he happiness have burst ! hu-uh-ush ! rush away ! -- and I rush away from the gold-maker 's house . `` late in autumn , when the day be short , and the mist come and strew cold drop upon the berry and leafless branch , I come back in fresh spirit , rush through the air , sweep the sky clear , and snap the dry twig -- which be certainly no great labor , but yet it must be do . then there be another kind of sweeping clean at Waldemar Daa 's , in the mansion of Borreby . he enemy , Owe Rainel , of Basnaes , be there with the mortgage of the house and everything it contain in he pocket . I drum against the broken window-panes , beat against the old rotten door , and whistle through crack and rift -- huh-sh ! Mr. Owe Rainel do not like stay there . Ida and Anna Dorothea weep bitterly ; Joanna stand pale and proud , and bit she thumb till it bleed -- but what could that avail ? Owe Rainel offer to allow Waldemar Daa to remain in the mansion till the end of he life , but no thanks be give he for he offer . I listen to hear what occur . I see the ruin gentleman lift he head and throw it back prouder than ever , and I rush against the house and the old lime tree with such force , that one of the thickest branch break , one that be not decay ; and the branch remain lie at the entrance as a broom when any one want to sweep the place out : and a grand sweeping out there be -- I think it would be so . -lrb-B- illustration : leave the OLD HOME . aaaaa -rrb-B- aaa `` it be hard on that day to preserve one 's composure ; but they will be as hard as they fortune . `` there be nothing they could call they own except the clothes they wear : yes , there be one thing more -- the alchymist 's glass , a new one that have lately be buy , and fill with what have be gather up from the ground of the treasure which promise so much but never keep its promise . Waldemar Daa hide the glass in he bosom , and take he stick in he hand , the once rich gentleman pass with he daughter out of the house of Borreby . I blow cold upon he heated cheek , I stroke he gray beard and he long white hair , and I sing as well as I could , -- ` huh-sh ! go away ! go away ! ' and that be the end of the wealth and splendor . `` Ida walk on one side of the old man , and Anna Dorothea on the other . Joanna turn round at the entrance -- why ? Fortune would not turn because she do so . she look at the old wall of what have once be the castle of Marsk Stig , and perhaps she think of he daughter : ` the eldest give the youngest she hand . and forth they go to the far-off land . ' be she thinking of this old song ? here be three of they , and they father be with they too . they walk along the road on which they have once drive in they splendid carriage -- they walk forth as beggar , with they father , and wander out into the open field , and into a mud hut , which they rent for a dollar and a half a year -- into they new house with the empty room and empty vessel . crow and magpie flutter above they , and cry , as if in contempt , ` Craw ! craw ! out of the nest ! craw ! craw ! ' as they have do in the wood at Borreby when the tree be fell . `` Daa and he daughter could not help hear it . I blow about they ear , for what use would it be that they should listen ? `` and they go to live in the mud hut on the open field , and I wander away over moor and field , through bare bush and leafless forest , to the open water , the free shore , to other land -- huh-uh-ush ! -- away , away ! year after year ! '' and how do Waldemar Daa and he daughter prosper ? the wind tell we : `` the one I see last , yes , for the last time , be Anna Dorothea , the pale hyacinth : then she be old and bent , for it be fifty year afterwards . she live longer than the rest ; she know all . `` yonder on the heath , by the Jutland town of Wiborg , stand the fine new house of the canon , build of red brick with project gable ; the smoke come up thickly from the chimney . the canon 's gentle lady and she beautiful daughter sit in the bay window , and look over the hawthorn hedge of the garden towards the brown heath . what be they look at ? they glance rest upon the stork 's nest without , and on the hut , which be almost fall in ; the roof consist of moss and houseleek , in so far as a roof exist there at all -- the stork 's nest cover the greater part of it , and that alone be in proper condition , for it be keep in order by the stork himself . `` that be a house to be look at , but not to be touch ; I must deal gently with it , '' say the Wind . `` for the sake of the stork 's nest the hut have be allow to stand , though it be a blot upon the landscape . they do not like to drive the stork away , therefore the old shed be leave standing , and the poor woman who dwell in it be allow to stay : she have the egyptian bird to thank for that ; or be it perchance she reward , because she have once intercede for the nest of its black brother in the forest of Borreby ? at that time she , the poor woman , be a young child , a pale hyacinth in the rich garden . she remember all that right well , do Anna Dorothea . '' ` oh ! oh ! ' yes , people can sigh like the wind moan in the rush and reed . ` oh ! oh ! ' '' she sigh , `` no bell sound at thy burial , Waldemar Daa ! the poor schoolboy do not even sing a psalm when the former lord of Borreby be lay in the earth to rest ! oh , everything have a end , even misery . Sister Ida become the wife of a peasant . that be the hardest trial that befall we father , that the husband of a daughter of he should be a miserable serf , whom the proprietor could mount on the wooden horse for punishment ! I suppose he be under the ground now . and thou , Ida ? Alas , alas ! it be not end yet , wretch that I be ! Grant I that I may die , kind heaven ! ' `` that be Anna Dorothea 's prayer in the wretch hut which be leave standing for the sake of the stork . `` I take pity on the fairest of the sister , '' say the Wind . `` she courage be like that of a man , and in man 's clothes she take service as a sailor on board of a ship . she be spare of word , and of a dark countenance , but willing at she work . but she do not know how to climb ; so I blow she overboard before anybody find out that she be a woman , and accord to my thinking that be well do ! '' say the Wind . `` on such a Easter morning as that on which Waldemar Daa have fancy that he have find the red gold , I hear the tone of a psalm under the stork 's nest , among the crumble wall -- it be Anna Dorothea 's last song . `` there be no window , only a hole in the wall . the sun rise up like a mass of gold , and look through . what a splendor he diffuse ! she eye be break , and she heart be break -- but that they would have do , even if the sun have not shine that morning on Anna Dorothea . `` the stork cover she hut till she death . I sing at she grave ! '' say the Wind . `` I sing at she father 's grave ; I know where he grave be , and where hers be , and nobody else know it . `` new time , change time ! the old high-road now run through cultivate field ; the new road wind among the trim ditch , and soon the railway will come with its train of carriage , and rush over the grave which be forget like the name -- hu-ush ! pass away , pass away ! `` that be the story of Waldemar Daa and he daughter . tell it better , any of you , if you know how , '' say the Wind , and turn away -- and he be go .