the MANDRAKE La Fontain FLORENTINE we now design to show ; -- a greater blockhead ne'er appear below ; it seem a prudent woman he have wed , with beauty that might grace a monarch 's bed ; Young , brisk , good-humoured , with engaging mien ; none in the town , or round , the like be see : she praise every voice incline to sing , and judge she worthy of a mighty king ; at least a better husband she deserve : a arrant fool he look , and quite unnerved . this Nicia Calfucci -lrb-B- for such he name -rrb-B- be fully bent to have a father 's fame , and think he country honor he could do , could he contrive he lineage to pursue . no holy saint in Paradise be bless , but what this husband fervently address ; from day to day , so oft he teaze for grace , they scarcely know he off ` ring where to place . no matron , quack , nor conjurer around , but what he try they quality profound ; yet all in vain : in spite of charm or book , no father he , whatever pain he take . to Florence then return a youth from France ; where he have study , -- more than complaisance : well train as any from that polish court ; to Fortune 's favor anxious to resort ; Gallant and seek ev ` ry fair to please ; each house , road , alley , soon he know at ease ; the husband , good or bad , they whim and year , with ev ` ry thing that move they hope or fear ; what sort of fuel best they female charm ; what spy be keep by those who feel alarm ; the if 's , for 's , to 's , and ev ` ry artful wile , that might in love a confidant beguile , or nurse , or father-confessor , or dog ; when passion prompt , few obstacle can clog . the snare be spread , each stratagem be lay ; and every thing arrange to furnish aid , when we gay spark determine to invest Old Nicia with the cuckold 's branch crest . the plan no doubt be well conceive and bold ; the lady to she friend appear not cold ; within she husband 's house she seem polite ; but ne'er familiarly be see invite , no further could a lover dare proceed ; not one have hope the belle he flame would heed . OUR youth , Calimachus , no sooner come , but he howe'er appear to please the dame ; he camp he pitch and enter on the siege of fair Lucretia , faithful to she liege , who presently the haughty tigress play , and send he , like the rest , away dismayed . he , scarcely know what saint he could invoke ; when Nicia 's folly serve he for a cloak ; however strange , no stratagem nor snare , but what the fool would willingly prepare with all he heart , and nothing fancy wrong ; that might to other possibly belong . the lover and himself , as learn man , have conversation ev ` ry now and then ; for Nicia be a doctor in the law : degree , to he , not worth a single straw ; far better have he common prudence trace ; and not he confidence so badly place . one day he to Calimachus complain , of want of heir , and wish they could be gain : where lay the fault ? he be a gay gallant ; Lucretia young with feature to enchant . when I at Paris be , reply we wight , there pass a clever man , a curious sight , he company with anxious care I seek , and be at length a hundred secret teach ; ` mong other how , at will , to get a heir : -- a certain thing , he often would declare ; the great Mogul have try it on he queen , just two year since , the heir might then be see ; and many other princess of fame , have add by it to they husband 's name . 'twa very true ; I have see it fully prove : the remedy all obstacle remove ; ` Tis from the root of certain tree express ; a juice most potent ev ` ry where confess , and Mandrake call , which take by a wife ; more pow ` r evince o ` er organick life , than from conventual grace be e ` er derive , Though in the cloister youthful friar hive . ten month from hence I 'll you a father make ; no longer time than that I ask to take ; this period o ` er , the child to church we 'll bring , -- if true , say Nicia , what a glorious thing ! you 'll do I service I can not express . -- do not doubt it , cry the spark of smart address : must I the fact so oft to you repeat ? I have see it with my eye ; ` tis most complete ; you mean to jest , assuredly my friend ; would you by doubt the great Mogul offend ? so handsomely this traveller he pay , no sign of discontent he e ` er betrayed . ` tis excellent , the Florentine reply ; Lucretia must be please to have it try ; what satisfaction ! in she arm to view a infant that my lineage will renew . now , worthy friend , you god-father shall stand ; this very day pray take the thing in hand . not quite so fast , rejoin we smart gallant , first know the plan , before consent you grant ; there be a ill attend the whole affair ; but what below , alas ! be free from care ; this juice , possess virtue so divine , have also pow ` r that prove the most malign : Whoe'er receive the patient 's first embrace ; Too fatally the dire effect will trace ; Death oft succeed the momentary joy ; we scarcely good can find without alloy . your servant ; sir , say Nicia with surprise ; no more of this : the name will I suffice ; Lucretia we will let remain at ease : what you propose can never truly please ; if I must die by get of a son , ` ti better far the benefit to shun ; go find some other for you wondrous art ; in fact I be not incline with life to part . HOW strange you conduct , cry the sprightly youth : extreme you seek , and overleap the truth ; just now the fond desire to have a boy chase ev ` ry care and fill you heart with joy ; at present quite the contrary appear a moment change you fondest hope to fear ; come , hear the rest ; no longer waste you breath : Kind Nature all can cure , except death . what be necessary pray , that thing succeed ? some youthful clod for once should take the lead , and clear the way of ev ` ry venom round then you with safety may commence to sound ; no time you 'll lose , but instantly begin and you 'll most certainly you object win . this step be necessary to the end ; some lad of little worth I recommend ; but not ill make , nor savagely robust , to give you lady terror nor disgust . we know that , use to Nicia 's soft caress , Lucretia would disrelish rude address ; indeed ` tis possible in such event , she tender heart would never give consent ; this lead I to propose a man that be young ; besides , the more he prove for action strong , the less of venom will behind remain , and I 'll engage that ev ` ry drop he 'll drain . AT first the husband disapprove the plan , the infamy , and danger which they run perhaps the magistrate might have he seek , and he , of murder , guilty might be think ; the sudden death would mightily perplex ; a fellow 's creature 's loss would sorely vex ; Lucretia , who have withstand each tempter 's charm , be now to be disgrace in rustick arm ! calimachus , with eagerness reply ; I would a man of consequence provide , or one , at all event , whose anxious aim would be , aloud the myst ` ry , to proclaim ! but fear and folly would contain the clown , or money at the worst would stop renown , you better half apparently resign ; the clod without intention of the kind ; in short whate'er arrive , ` tis clear you case could not with Cuckoldom be well in place . besides ` tis no way certain but we blade , by strength of nerve the poison may evade ; and that be a double reason for the choice , since with more certainty we shall rejoice : the venom may evaporate in fume , and Mandrake please pow ` r at once assume ; for when I speak of death , I do not mean , that nothing from it would the person screen ; to-morrow we the rustick lad must name ; to-night the potion give you charming dame ; I have some already with I , all prepared ; let nothing of you project be declare : you should not seem to know what we have design ; Ligurio you 'll permit this clod to find ; you can most thoroughly in he confide : discretion , secrecy , with he reside . one thing , however , nearly I would forget ; a bandage for the eye we should allot ; and when well bind he nothing e ` er can trace of whom , or what , the lady , or the place . the whole arrangement Nicia much approve ; but now 'twa time the lady should be move . at first she think it jest , then angry grow , and vow the plan she never would pursue ; she life she would rather forfeit than she name : once know , for ever lose would be she fame besides the heinous sin and vile offence , God know she rather would with all dispense ; Mere complaisance have lead she to comply ; would she admit a wretch with blear eye , to incommode , and banish tranquil ease ? who could conceive she form a clod to please ? can I , say she , the path of honor quit , and in my bed a loathsome brute permit ? or e ` er regard the plan but with disdain ? no , by saint John , I ever will maintain , nor beau , nor clown , nor king , nor lord , nor ` squire , Save Nicia , with I freely shall retire . the fair Lucretia seem so firmly bent , to father Timothy at length they go , who preach the lady such a fine discourse , she cede more through penitence than force . MOREOVER she be promise that the lad should be nor clownish , nor in person bad ; nor such as any way might give disgust , but one to whom she perfectly might trust . the wondrous draught be take by the fair ; next day we Wight prepare he wily snare : himself bepowder like a miller 's man , with beard and whisker to complete he plan ; a better metamorphose ne'er be see ; Ligurio , who have in the secret be , so thoroughly disguise the lover thought , at midnight he to Nicia freely bring , with bandage o ` er the eye and hair disdain , not once the husband of deceit complain . beside the dame in silence slide we spark ; in silence she attend in the dark , Perfumed and nicely ev ` ry way bedeck ; for what ? you ask , or whom do she expect ; be all these pain a miller to receive ? -- too much they can not take , the sex believe ; and whether king or miller be they aim , the wish to please be ever find the same . ` Tis double honor in a woman think , when by she charm a torpid heart be catch ; she , who in icy bosom flame can raise , deserving doubtless be of treble praise . the spark disguised , he place no sooner take , but awkwardness he presently forsook ; no more the miller , but the smart gallant : the lady find he kind and complaisant ; such moment we 'll suppose be well employ ; Though tremble fear not perfectly destroy . SHE , to herself , remark , ` tis very strange , this lad 's demeanor should so quickly change ; he be quite another character , ` tis clear ; what pity that he end should be so near ; Alas ! he merit not so hard a fate ; I feel regret the lot should he await ; and while soft pleasure seem he heart 's delight ; he soul be doom from hence to take its flight . the husband who so fully give consent , be lead he partner 's suff ` ring to lament the spirit of a queen in truth she show , when cuckoldom be on she spouse bestow ; in decoration , force to acquiesce , she would not condescend to join caress . LUCRETIA howsoe'er the lad approve ; he win manners much she favor move . when he the subtle venom have subdue , he take she hand , and have fondly sue , say he , you pardon lady now I ask ; be not displeased when I remove the mask ; you rage restrain ; a trick on you be be play ; Calimachus be I ; be not dismayed ; approve my sacrifice ; the secret 's know ; you rigor would be useless now if show ; should I be doom howe'er to breathe my last , I die content , rememb ` ring what have pass ; you have the means my life at will to take ; more havock with I soft delight could make , than any poison that the draught possess ; Mere folly , imposition , all the rest . till then Lucretia have resistance make ; to seem submissive she be still afraid ; the lover be not hate by the belle , but bashfulness she could not well dispel , which , join to simple manners mix with fear , Ungrateful make she , spite of self , appear . in silence wrapt , and scarcely draw breath , by passion move , and yet ashamed to death , not know how to act , so great she grief , from tear , she throbbing bosom seek relief . look , could she e ` er she lover in the face ? will he not think I cover with disgrace ? Said she , within herself ; -- what else believe ? my wit be lose to let he thus deceive . o'ercome by sorrow , then she turn she head , and try to hide herself within the bed , at furthest end , but vain alas she aim , the lover thither in a moment come : she only ground , remain unsubdued , surrender when the vanquisher pursue , who every thing submit to he will , and tear no more she eye be find to fill ; Shame take to flight , and scruple spread the wing ; how happy those whom dupe GAIN can bring ! too soon Aurora for we spark appear ; too soon for she so thoroughly revere ; Said he , the poison , that can life devour , require repeated act to crush its pow ` r. the foll ` wing day we youthful be ` rous pair found opportunity for please fare . the husband scarcely could himself contain , so anxiously he wish he aim to gain . the lover from the belle at length arise , and hasten to he house to seek repose ; but scarcely have he place himself in bed , when we good husband 's footstep thither lead ; he , to the spark , relate with delight , how mandrake-juice succeed in the night . Said he , at first beside the bed I creep , and listen if the miller near she keep , or whether he to converse be incline , and ev ` ry way to act as be design . I then my wife be anxious to address , and whisper that she should the youth caress ; nor dread too much the spoiling of she charm : indeed 'twa all embarrassing alarm . do not think , say I , that either can deceive ; I ev ` ry thing shall hear , you may believe ; Know , Nicia be a man , who well may say , he be trust without measure ev ` ry day . PRAY recollect my very life 's at stake , and do not many difficulty make . convince thereby how much you spouse you love ; ` Twill pleasure doubtless give the pow ` r above . but should the blockhead any how prove shy send instantly to I ; I shall be nigh ; I be go now to rest ; by no means fail ; we 'll soon contrive and ev ` ry way prevail . but there be no necessity for this ; ` ti pretty clear that nothing go amiss . in fact the rustick like the business well , and seem unwilling to resign the belle , I pity he , and much lament he lot ; but -- he must die and soon will be forget : a fig for those who use to crack they jest ; in nine month ' time a child will be the test .