49 the six SwansS BrothersS Grimm once upon a time , a certain King be hunting in a great forest , and he chase a wild beast so eagerly that none of he attendant could follow he . when evening draw near he stop and look around he , and then he see that he have lose he way . he seek a way out , but could find none . then he perceive a age woman with a head which nod perpetually , who come towards he , but she be a witch . `` good woman , '' say he to she , `` can you not show I the way through the forest ? '' `` oh , yes , Lord King , '' she answer , `` that I certainly can , but on one condition , and if you do not fulfil that , you will never get out of the forest , and will die of hunger in it . '' `` what kind of condition be it ? '' ask the King . `` I have a daughter , '' say the old woman , `` who be as beautiful as any one in the world , and well deserve to be you consort , and if you will make she you Queen , I will show you the way out of the forest . '' in the anguish of he heart the King consent , and the old woman lead he to she little hut , where she daughter be sit by the fire . she receive the King as if she have be expect he , and he see that she be very beautiful , but still she do not please he , and he could not look at she without secret horror . after he have take the maiden up on he horse , the old woman show he the way , and the King reach he royal palace again , where the wedding be celebrate . the King have already be marry once , and have by he first wife , seven child , six boy and a girl , whom he love better than anything else in the world . as he now fear that the step-mother might not treat they well , and even do they some injury , he take they to a lonely castle which stand in the midst of a forest . it lay so conceal , and the way be so difficult to find that he himself would not have find it , if a wise woman have not give he a ball of yarn with wonderful property . when he throw it down before he , it unroll itself and show he he path . the King , however , go so frequently away to he dear child that the Queen observe he absence ; she be curious and want to know what he do when he be quite alone in the forest . she give a great deal of money to he servant , and they betray the secret to she , and tell she likewise of the ball which alone could point out the way . and now she know no rest until she have learn where the King keep the ball of yarn , and then she make little shirt of white silk , and as she have learn the art of witchcraft from she mother , she sew a charm inside they . and once when the King have ride forth to hunt , she take the little shirt and go into the forest , and the ball show she the way . the child , who see from a distance that some one be approach , think that they dear father be come to they , and full of joy , run to meet he . then she throw one of the little shirt over each of they , and no sooner have the shirt touch they body than they be change into swan , and fly away over the forest . the Queen go home quite delighted , and think she have get rid of she step-children , but the girl have not run out with she brother , and the Queen know nothing about she . next day the King go to visit he child , but he find no one but the little girl . `` where be thy brother ? '' ask the King . `` Alas , dear father , '' she answer , `` they have go away and leave I alone ! '' and she tell he that she have see from she little window how she brother have fly away over the forest in the shape of swan , and she show he the feather , which they have let fall in the courtyard , and which she have pick up . the King mourn , but he do not think that the Queen have do this wicked deed , and as he fear that the girl would also be steal away from he , he want to take she away with he . but she be afraid of she step-mother , and entreat the King to let she stay just this one night more in the forest castle . the poor girl thought , `` I can no longer stay here . I will go and seek my brother . '' and when night come , she run away , and go straight into the forest . she walk the whole night long , and next day also without stop , until she could go no farther for weariness . then she see a forest-hut , and go into it , and find a room with six little bed , but she do not venture to get into one of they , but creep under one , and lay down on the hard ground , intend to pass the night there . just before sunset , however , she hear a rustling , and see six swan come fly in at the window . they alight on the ground and blow at each other , and blow all the feather off , and they swan 's skin strip off like a shirt . then the maiden look at they and recognize she brother , be glad and creep forth from beneath the bed . the brother be not less delighted to see they little sister , but they joy be of short duration . `` here canst thou not abide , '' they say to she . `` this be a shelter for robber , if they come home and find thee , they will kill thee . '' `` but can you not protect I ? '' ask the little sister . `` no , '' they reply , `` only for one quarter of a hour each evening can we lay aside we swan 's skin and have during that time we human form ; after that , we be once more turn into swan . '' the little sister weep and say , `` can you not be set free ? '' `` Alas , no , '' they answer , `` the condition be too hard ! for six year thou mayst neither speak nor laugh , and in that time thou must sew together six little shirt of starwort for we . and if one single word fall from thy lip , all thy work will be lose . '' and when the brother have say this , the quarter of a hour be over , and they fly out of the window again as swan . the maiden , however , firmly resolve to deliver she brother , even if it should cost she she life . she leave the hut , go into the midst of the forest , seat herself on a tree , and there pass the night . next morning she go out and gather starwort and begin to sew . she could not speak to any one , and she have no inclination to laugh ; she sit there and look at nothing but she work . when she have already spend a long time there it come to pass that the King of the country be hunting in the forest , and he huntsman come to the tree on which the maiden be sit . they call to she and say , `` who art thou ? '' but she make no answer . `` come down to we , '' say they . `` we will not do thee any harm . '' she only shake she head . as they press she further with question she throw she golden necklace down to they , and think to content they thus . they , however , do not cease , and then she throw she girdle down to they , and as this also be to no purpose , she garter , and by degree everything that she have on that she could do without until she have nothing leave but she shift . the huntsman , however , do not let themselves be turn aside by that , but climb the tree and fetch the maiden down and lead she before the King . the King ask , `` who art thou ? what art thou do on the tree ? '' but she do not answer . he put the question in every language that he know , but she remain as mute as a fish . as she be so beautiful , the King 's heart be touch , and he be smite with a great love for she . he put he mantle on she , take she before he on he horse , and carry she to he castle . then he cause she to be dress in rich garment , and she shine in she beauty like bright daylight , but no word could be draw from she . he place she by he side at table , and she modest bearing and courtesy please he so much that he say , `` she be the one whom I wish to marry , and no other woman in the world . '' and after some day he unite himself to she . the King , however , have a wicked mother who be dissatisfy with this marriage and speak ill of the young Queen . `` who know , '' say she , `` from whence the creature who can not speak , come ? she be not worthy of a king ! '' after a year have pass , when the Queen bring she first child into the world , the old woman take it away from she , and smear she mouth with blood as she sleep . then she go to the King and accuse the Queen of be a man-eater . the King would not believe it , and would not suffer any one to do she any injury . she , however , sit continually sew at the shirt , and care for nothing else . the next time , when she again bear a beautiful boy , the false step-mother use the same treachery , but the King could not bring himself to give credit to she word . he say , `` she be too pious and good to do anything of that kind ; if she be not dumb , and could defend herself , she innocence would come to light . '' but when the old woman steal away the newly-born child for the third time , and accuse the Queen , who do not utter one word of defense , the King could do no otherwise than deliver she over to justice , and she be sentence to suffer death by fire . when the day come for the sentence to be execute , it be the last day of the six year during which she be not to speak or laugh , and she have deliver she dear brother from the power of the enchantment . the six shirt be ready , only the left sleeve of the sixth be want . when , therefore , she be lead to the stake , she lay the shirt on she arm , and when she stand on high and the fire be just go to be light , she look around and six swan come fly through the air towards she . then she see that she deliverance be near , and she heart leap with joy . the swan sweep towards she and sink down so that she could throw the shirt over they , and as they be touch by they , they swan 's skin fall off , and she brother stand in they own bodily form before she , and be vigorous and handsome . the youngest only lack he left arm , and have in the place of it a swan 's wing on he shoulder . they embrace and kiss each other , and the Queen go to the King , who be greatly move , and she begin to speak and say , `` dearest husband , now I may speak and declare to thee that I be innocent , and falsely accuse . '' and she tell he of the treachery of the old woman who have take away she three child and hide they . then to the great joy of the King they be bring thither , and as a punishment , the wicked step-mother be bind to the stake , and burnt to ash . but the King and the Queen with they six brother live many year in happiness and peace .