the son of SEVEN QUEENS Indian Writer once upon a time there live a king who have seven Queens , but no child . this be a great grief to he , especially when he remember that on he death there would be no heir to inherit the kingdom . now it happen one day that a poor old fakir come to the King , and say , `` you prayer be hear , you desire shall be accomplish , and one of you seven Queens shall bear a son . '' the King 's delight at this promise know no bound , and he give order for appropriate festivity to be prepare against the come event throughout the length and breadth of the land . meanwhile the seven Queens live luxuriously in a splendid palace , attend by hundred of female slave , and fed to they heart ' content on sweetmeat and confectionery . now the King be very fond of hunting , and one day , before he start , the seven Queens send he a message say , `` May it please we dearest lord not to hunt towards the north to-day , for we have dream bad dream , and fear lest evil should befall you . '' the king , to allay they anxiety , promise regard for they wish , and set out towards the south ; but as luck would have it , although he hunt diligently , he find no game . nor have he more success to the east or west , so that , be a keen sportsman , and determine not to go home empty-handed , he forget all about he promise , and turn to the north . here also he be at first unsuccessful , but just as he have make up he mind to give up for that day , a white hind with golden horn and silver hoof flash past he into a thicket . so quickly do it pass that he scarcely see it ; nevertheless a burning desire to capture and possess the beautiful strange creature fill he breast . he instantly order he attendant to form a ring round the thicket , and so encircle the hind ; then , gradually narrow the circle , he press forward till he could distinctly see the white hind panting in the midst . Nearer and nearer he advance , till , just as he think to lay hold of the beautiful strange creature , it give one mighty bind , leap clean over the King 's head , and flee towards the mountain . Forgetful of all else , the King , set spur to he horse , follow at full speed . on , on he gallop , leave he retinue far behind , keep the white hind in view , never draw bridle , until , find himself in a narrow ravine with no outlet , he rein in he steed . before he stand a miserable hovel , into which , be tire after he long , unsuccessful chase , he enter to ask for a drink of water . a old woman , seat in the hut at a spinning-wheel , answer he request by call to she daughter , and immediately from a inner room come a maiden so lovely and charming , so white-skinned and golden-haired , that the King be transfix by astonishment at see so beautiful a sight in the wretch hovel . she hold the vessel of water to the King 's lip , and as he drink he look into she eye , and then it become clear to he that the girl be no other than the white hind with the golden horn and silver foot he have chase so far . she beauty bewitch he , so he fall on he knee , beg she to return with he as he bride ; but she only laugh , say seven Queens be quite enough even for a king to manage . however , when he would take no refusal , but implore she to have pity on he , promise she everything she could desire , she reply , `` give I the eye of you seven Queens , and then perhaps I may believe you mean what you say . '' the King be so carry away by the glamour of the white hind 's magical beauty , that he go home at once , have the eye of he seven Queens take out , and , after throw the poor blind creature into a noisome dungeon whence they could not escape , set off once more for the hovel in the ravine , bear with he he horrible offering . but the white hind only laugh cruelly when she see the fourteen eye , and thread they as a necklace , fling it round she mother 's neck , say , `` wear that , little mother , as a keepsake , whilst I be away in the King 's palace . '' then she go back with the bewitch monarch , as he bride , and he give she the seven Queens ' rich clothes and jewel to wear , the seven Queens ' palace to live in , and the seven Queens ' slave to wait upon she ; so that she really have everything even a witch could desire . now , very soon after the seven wretch hapless Queens have they eye tear out , and be cast into prison , a baby be bear to the youngest of the Queens . it be a handsome boy , but the other Queens be very jealous that the youngest amongst they should be so fortunate . but though at first they dislike the handsome little boy , he soon prove so useful to they , that ere long they all look on he as they son . almost as soon as he could walk about he begin scrape at the mud wall of they dungeon , and in a incredibly short space of time have make a hole big enough for he to crawl through . through this he disappear , return in a hour or so laden with sweet-meats , which he divide equally amongst the seven blind Queens . as he grow older he enlarged the hole , and slip out two or three time every day to play with the little noble in the town . no one know who the tiny boy be , but everybody like he , and he be so full of funny trick and antic , so merry and bright , that he be sure to be reward by some girdle-cakes , a handful of parched grain , or some sweetmeat . all these thing he bring home to he seven mother , as he love to call the seven blind Queens , who by he help live on in they dungeon when all the world think they have starve to death age before . at last , when he be quite a big lad , he one day take he bow and arrow , and go out to seek for game . come by chance past the palace where the white hind live in wicked splendor and magnificence , he see some pigeon flutter round the white marble turret , and , take good aim , shoot one dead . it come tumble past the very window where the white Queen be sit ; she rise to see what be the matter , and look out . at the first glance of the handsome young lad standing there bow in hand , she know by witchcraft that it be the King 's son . she nearly die of envy and spite , determine to destroy the lad without delay ; therefore , send a servant to bring he to she presence , she ask he if he would sell she the pigeon he have just shoot . `` no , '' reply the sturdy lad , `` the pigeon be for my seven blind mother , who live in the noisome dungeon , and who would die if I do not bring they food . '' `` Poor soul ! '' cry the cunning white witch ; `` would you not like to bring they they eye again ? give I the pigeon , my dear , and I faithfully promise to show you where to find they . '' hearing this , the lad be delighted beyond measure , and give up the pigeon at once . Whereupon the white Queen tell he to seek she mother without delay , and ask for the eye which she wear as a necklace . `` she will not fail to give they , '' say the cruel Queen , `` if you show she this token on which I have write what I want do . '' so say , she give the lad a piece of broken potsherd , with these word inscribe on it -- `` kill the bearer at once , and sprinkle he blood like water ! '' now , as the son of seven Queens could not read , he take the fatal message cheerfully , and set off to find the white Queen 's mother . Whilst he be journey be pass through a town , where every one of the inhabitant look so sad , that he could not help ask what be the matter . they tell he it be because the King 's only daughter refuse to marry ; so when she father die there would be no heir to the throne . they greatly fear she must be out of she mind , for though every good-looking young man in the kingdom have be show to she , she declare she would only marry one who be the son of seven mother , and who ever hear of such a thing ? the King , in despair , have order every man who enter the city gate to be lead before the Princess ; so , much to the lad 's impatience , for he be in a immense hurry to find he mother ' eye , he be drag into the presence-chamber . no sooner do the Princess catch sight of he than she blush , and , turn to the King , say , `` dear father , this be my choice ! '' never be such rejoicing as these few word produce . the inhabitant nearly go wild with joy , but the son of seven Queens say he would not marry the Princess unless they first let he recover he mother ' eye . when the beautiful bride hear he story , she ask to see the potsherd , for she be very learn and clever . see the treacherous word , she say nothing , but take another similar-shaped bit of potsherd , she write on it these word -- `` take care of this lad , give he all he desire , '' and return it to the son of seven Queens , who , none the wiser , set off on he quest . ere long he arrive at the hovel in the ravine where the white witch 's mother , a hideous old creature , grumble dreadfully on read the message , especially when the lad ask for the necklace of eye . nevertheless she take it off , and give it he , say , `` there be only thirteen of 'em now , for I lose one last week . '' the lad , however , be only too glad to get any at all , so he hurry home as fast as he could to he seven mother , and give two eye apiece to the six elder Queens ; but to the youngest he give one , say , `` dearest little mother ! -- I will be you other eye always ! '' after this he set off to marry the Princess , as he have promise , but when pass by the white Queen 's palace he see some pigeon on the roof . draw he bow , he shoot one , and it come flutter past the window . the white hind look out , and lo ! there be the King 's son alive and well . she cry with hatred and disgust , but send for the lad , ask he how he have return so soon , and when she hear how he have bring home the thirteen eye , and give they to the seven blind Queens , she could hardly restrain she rage . nevertheless she pretend to be charm with he success , and tell he that if he would give she this pigeon also , she would reward he with the Jogi 's wonderful cow , whose milk flow all day long , and make a pond as big as a kingdom . the lad , nothing loth , give she the pigeon ; whereupon , as before , she bid he go ask she mother for the cow , and give he a potsherd whereon be write -- `` kill this lad without fail , and sprinkle he blood like water ! '' but on the way the son of seven Queens look in on the Princess , just to tell she how he come to be delay , and she , after read the message on the potsherd , give he another in its stead ; so that when the lad reach the old hag 's hut and ask she for the Jogi 's cow , she could not refuse , but tell the boy how to find it ; and bid he of all thing not to be afraid of the eighteen thousand demon who keep watch and ward over the treasure , tell he to be off before she become too angry at she daughter 's foolishness in thus give away so many good thing . then the lad do as he have be tell bravely . he journey on and on till he come to a milk-white pond , guard by the eighteen thousand demon . they be really frightful to behold , but , pluck up courage , he whistle a tune as he walk through they , look neither to the right nor the left . by-and-by he come upon the Jogi 's cow , tall , white , and beautiful , while the Jogi himself , who be king of all the demon , sit milk she day and night , and the milk stream from she udder , fill the milk-white tank . the Jogi , see the lad , call out fiercely , `` what do you want here ? '' then the lad answer , accord to the old hag 's bidding , `` I want you skin , for King Indra be make a new kettle-drum , and say you skin be nice and tough . '' upon this the Jogi begin to shiver and shake -lrb-B- for no jinn or jogi dare disobey King Indra 's command -rrb-B- , and , fall at the lad 's foot , cry , `` if you will spare I I will give you anything I possess , even my beautiful white cow ! '' to this the son of seven Queens , after a little pretended hesitation , agree , say that after all it would not be difficult to find a nice tough skin like the Jogi 's elsewhere ; so , drive the wonderful cow before he , he set off homeward . the seven Queens be delighted to possess so marvellous a animal , and though they toil from morning till night make curd and whey , besides sell milk to the confectioner , they could not use half the cow give , and become richer and richer day by day . see they so comfortably off , the son of seven Queens start with a light heart to marry the Princess ; but when pass the white hind 's palace he could not resist send a bolt at some pigeon which be coo on the parapet . one fall dead just beneath the window where the white Queen be sit . look out , she see the lad hale and hearty standing before she , and grow whiter than ever with rage and spite . she send for he to ask how he have return so soon , and when she hear how kindly she mother have receive he , she very nearly have a fit ; however , she dissemble she feeling as well as she could , and , smile sweetly , say she be glad to have be able to fulfil she promise , and that if he would give she this third pigeon , she would do yet more for he than she have do before , by give he the million-fold rice , which ripen in one night . the lad be of course delight at the very idea , and , give up the pigeon , set off on he quest , arm as before with a potsherd , on which be write , `` do not fail this time . kill the lad , and sprinkle he blood like water ! '' but when he look in on he Princess , just to prevent she become anxious about he , she ask to see the potsherd as usual , and substitute another , on which be write , `` yet again give this lad all he require , for he blood shall be as you blood ! '' now when the old hag see this , and hear how the lad want the million-fold rice which ripen in a single night , she fall into the most furious rage , but be terribly afraid of she daughter , she control herself , and bid the boy go and find the field guard by eighteen million of demon , warn he on no account to look back after have pluck the tallest spike of rice , which grow in the center . so the son of seven Queens set off , and soon come to the field where , guard by eighteen million of demon , the million-fold rice grow . he walk on bravely , look neither to the right or leave , till he reach the center and pluck the tallest ear , but as he turn homewards a thousand sweet voice rise behind he , cry in tenderest accent , `` pluck I too ! oh , please pluck I too ! '' he look back , and lo ! there be nothing left of he but a little heap of ash ! now as time pass by and the lad do not return , the old hag grow uneasy , remember the message `` he blood shall be as you blood '' ; so she set off to see what have happen . soon she come to the heap of ash , and know by she art what it be , she take a little water , and knead the ash into a paste , form it into the likeness of a man ; then , put a drop of blood from she little finger into its mouth , she blow on it , and instantly the son of seven Queens start up as well as ever . `` do not you disobey order again ! '' grumble the old hag , `` or next time I 'll leave you alone . now be off , before I repent of my kindness ! '' so the son of seven Queens return joyfully to he seven mother , who , by the aid of the million-fold rice , soon become the richest people in the kingdom . then they celebrate they son 's marriage to the clever Princess with all imaginable pomp ; but the bride be so clever , she would not rest until she have make know she husband to he father , and punish the wicked white witch . so she make she husband build a palace exactly like the one in which the seven Queens have live , and in which the white witch now dwell in splendor . then , when all be prepare , she bid she husband give a grand feast to the King . now the King have hear much of the mysterious son of seven Queens , and he marvellous wealth , so he gladly accept the invitation ; but what be he astonishment when on enter the palace he find it be a facsimile of he own in every particular ! and when he host , richly attire , lead he straight to the private hall , where on royal throne sit the seven Queens , dress as he have last see they , he be speechless with surprise , until the Princess , come forward , throw herself at he foot , and tell he the whole story . then the King awake from he enchantment , and he anger rise against the wicked white hind who have bewitch he so long , until he could not contain himself . so she be put to death , and she grave plough over , and after that the seven Queens return to they own splendid palace , and everybody live happily .