the MAGNIFICENT La Fontain by La Fontaine SOME wit , handsome form and gen ` rous mind ; a triple engine prove in love we find ; by these the strongest fortress be gain E ` en rock ` gainst such can never be sustain . if you have some talent , with a please face , you purse-strings open free , and you have the place . at time , no doubt , without these thing , success attend the gay gallant , we must confess ; but then , good sense should o ` er he action rule ; at all event , he must not be a fool . the stingy , woman ever will detest ; word puppy want ; -- the lib ` ral be the best . a Florentine , MAGNIFICENT by name , be what we have just describe , in fact and fame ; the title be bestow upon the knight , for noble deed perform by he in fight . the honor ev ` ry way he well deserve ; he upright conduct -lrb-B- whence he never swerve , -rrb-B- expensive equipage , and present make , proclaim he all around what we have pourtray . with handsome person and a please mien , Gallant , a polished air , and soul serene ; a certain fair of noble birth he seek , whose conquest , doubtless , brilliant would be think ; which in we lover doubly raise desire ; Renown and pleasure lend he bosom fire . the jealous husband of the beauteous fair be Aldobrandin , whose suspicious care resemble more , what frequently be show for fav ` rite mistress , than wife alone . he watch she every step with all he eye ; a hundred thousand scarcely would suffice ; indeed , quite useless Cupid these can make ; and Argus oft be subject to mistake : repeatedly they be dupe , although we wight , -lrb-B- who fancy he in ev ` ry thing be right , -rrb-B- himself so perfectly secure believe , by gay gallant he ne'er could be deceive . to suitor , howsoe'er , he be not blind ; to covet present , greatly he incline . the lover yet have no occasion find , to drop a word to charm so much renown ; he think he passion be not even see ; and if it have , would thing have better be ? what would have follow ? what have be the end ? the reader need no hint to comprehend . BUT to return to we forlorn gallant , whose bosom for the lady 's ` gan to pant ; he , to he doctor , not a word have say ; now here , now there , he try to pop he head . but neither door nor window could he find , where he might glimpse the object of he mind , or even hear she voice , or sound she name ; no fortress have he ever find the same ; yet still to conquer he be quite resolve , and oft the manner in he mind revolve . this plan at length he think would best succeed , to execute it doubtless he have need of ev ` ry wily art he could devise , surround as he be by eagle-eyes . I think the reader I have already tell , we husband love rich present to behold ; Though none he make , yet all he would receive ; Whate'er be offer he would never leave . MAGNIFICENT a handsome horse have get , it amble well , or canter , or would trot ; he greatly value it , and for its pace , 'Twas call the pad ; it stept with wond ` rous grace : by Aldobrandin it be highly praise ; Enough be this : the knight 's fond hope be raise ; who offer to exchange , but t ` other thought , he in a barter might perhaps be catch . ` Tis not , say he , that I the horse refuse ; but I , in trucking , never fail to lose . on this , Magnificent , who see he aim ; Replied , well , well , a better scheme we 'll frame ; no change we 'll allow , but you 'll permit , that for the horse , I with you lady sit , you present all the while , ` tis what I want ; I be curious , I confess , and fort it pant . besides , you friend assuredly should know what mind , what sentiment may from she flow . just fifteen minute , I no more desire : what ! cry the other , you my wife require ? no , no , pray keep you horse , that will not be right . but you 'll be present , say the courteous knight . and what of that ? rejoin the wily spouse . why , cry Magnificent , then naught should rouse you fear or care , for how can ill arise , while watch by you , possess of eagle-eyes ? the husband ` gan to turn it in he mind ; Thought he , if present , what can be design ? the plan be such as dissipate my fear ; the offer advantageous too appear ; he be surely mad ; I can not conceive he aim ; but , to secure myself and wife from shame ; without he knowledge , I 'll forbid the fair she lip to open , and for this prepare . come , cried old Aldobrandin , I 'll consent : but , say the other , recollect ` tis mean , so distant from we , all the while you stay , that not a word you hear of what I say . Agreed , rejoin the husband : -- let 's begin ; away he fly , and bring the lady in . when we gallant the charming belle perceive ; Elysium seem around , he half believe . the salutation o ` er , they go and sit together in a corner , where they chat could not be hear , if they to talk inclined ; we brisk gallant no long harangue design , but to the point advance without delay ; Cried he , I have neither time nor place to say what I could wish , and useless ` twere to seek expression that but indirectly speak the sentiment which animate the soul ; in term direct , ` tis better state the whole . thus circumstanced , fair lady , let I , pray ; to you at once , my adoration pay ; no word my admiration can express ; you charm enslave my sens , I confess ; can you suppose to answer would be wrong ? too much good sense to you should now belong ; have I the leisure , I would in form disclose the tender flame with which my bosom glow ; each horrid torment ; but by Fate deny bless opportunity , let I not hide , while moment offer , what pervade my heart , and openly avow the burning smart few minute I have get to travel o ` er what gen ` rally require six month or more . Cold be that lover who will not pursue , with ev ` ry ardor , beauty , when in view . but why this silence ? -- not a word you say ! you surely will not send I thus away ! that heav ` n , a angel make you , none deny ; but still , to what be ask you should reply . you husband this contrived I plainly see , who fancy that reply be not to be , since in we bargain they be never name ; for shuffle conduct he be ever fame ; but I 'll come round he , spite of all he art ; I can reply for you , and from the heart , since I can read you wish in you eye ; ` Tis thus to say -- good , sir , I would advise that you regard I , not as marble cold ; you various tournament and action bold , you serenade , and gen ` ral conduct prove , what tender sentiment you bosom move . your fond affection constantly I praise , and quickly feel a flame within I raise ; yet what avail ? -- oh , that I 'll soon disclose ; since we agree , allow I to propose , we mutual wish we enjoy to-night ; and turn to ridicule that jealous Wight ; in short , reward he for he wily fear , in watch we so very closely here . you garden will be quite the thing , I guess ; Go thither , pray , and never fear success ; depend upon it , soon he country seat you spouse will visit : -- then the hunk we 'll cheat . when plunge in sleep the grave duenna lie , Arise , fur gown put on , and quickly fly ; with careful step you 'll to the garden haste ; I have get a ladder ready to be place against the wall which join you neighbour 's square : I have he permission thither to repair ; ` tis better than the street : -- fear naught my dive . -- ah ! dear Magnificent , my fondest love ; as you desire , I 'll readily proceed ; my heart be you 's : we fully be agree . ` T 's you who speak , and , would that in my arm permission I have get to clasp you charm ! MAGNIFICENT -lrb-B- for she he now reply , -rrb-B- this flame you 'll soon no reason have to hide through dread or fear of my old jealous fool , who wisely fancy he can woman rule . the lover , feign rare , the lady leave , and grumble much , as if of hope bereft , address the husband thus : you be vastly kind ; as well with no-one converse I might find ; if horse you so easily procure , you Fortune 's frown may very well endure . Mine neigh , at least , but this fair image seem , mere pretty fish ; I have satisfy my scheme ; what now of precious minute may remain , if any one desire my chance to gain , a bargain he shall have : -- most cheap the prize ; the husband laugh till tear bedew he eye . Said he , these youth have always in they head some wond ` rous fancy ; folly round they spread . friend , from pursuit you much too soon retire : with time we oft obtain we fond desire . but I shall always keep a watchful eye ; some know trick methink I yet can spy ; Howe'er , the horse must now be clearly mine , and you 'll the pad of course to I resign ; to you no more expense ; and from to-day , be not displeased to see I on it , pray ; at ease I 'll ride my country house to view ; -- that very night he to the mansion fly , and we good folk immediately repair , where gay Magnificent no pain have spare to get access ; what pass we will not detail ; soft scene , you 'll doubtless guess , should there prevail . the dame be lively , beautiful , and young ; the lover handsome , finely form , and strong ; Alike enchant with each other 's charm , three meeting be contrived without alarm ; a fair so captivate to possess , what mortal could be satisfy with less ? in golden dream the sage duenna sleep ; a female sentinel to watch be keep . a summer-house be at the garden end , which to the pair much ease be find to lend ; Old Aldobrandin , when he build the same , Ne'er fancy LOVE , would in it freak and game . in cuckoldom he take he full degree ; the horse he daily mount at he ease , and so delighted with he bargain seem , three day , to prove it , requisite he deem . the country house receive he ev ` ry night ; at home he never dream but all be right . what number round , whom Fortune favor less ; Have get a wife , but not a horse possess ; and , what yet still more wond ` rous may appear , Know ey ` ry thing that pass with they dear .