the sixth voyage of SINBAD the SAILOR . Arabian Writer after be shipwreck five time , and escape so many danger , could I resolve again to try my fortune , and expose myself to new hardship ? I be astonish at it myself when I think of it , and must certainly have be induce to it by my star . but be that as it will , after a year 's rest I prepare for a sixth voyage , notwithstanding the entreaty of my kindred and friend , who do all that be possible to prevent I . instead of take my way by the Persian Gulf , I travel once more through several province of Persia and the Indies , and arrive at a sea-port , where I embark on board a ship , the captain of which be resolve on a long voyage . it be very long indeed , but at the same time so unfortunate that the captain and pilot lose they course , and know not where they be . they find it at last , but we have no reason to rejoice at it . we be all seize with extraordinary fear when we see the captain quit he post , and cry out . he throw off he turban , pull he beard , and beat he head like a madman . we ask he the reason , and he answer that he be in the most dangerous place in all the sea . ` a rapid current carry the ship along with it , ' he say , ` and we shall all of we perish in less than a quarter of a hour . pray to God to deliver we from this danger ; we can not escape it if he do not take pity on we . ' at these word he order the sail to be change ; but all the rope break and the ship , without its be possible to help it , be carry by the current to the foot of a inaccessible mountain , where she run ashore , and be break to piece , yet so that we save we life , we provision , and the best of we goods . this be over , the captain say to we , ` God have do what please he ; we may every man dig we grave here , and bid the world adieu , for we be all in so fatal a place that none shipwreck here have ever return to they home again . ' he discourse afflict we sorely , and we embrace each other with tear in we eye , bewail we deplorable lot . the mountain at the foot of which we be cast be the coast of a very long and large island . this coast be cover all over with wreck , and from the vast number of man 's bone we see everywhere , and which fill we with horror , we conclude that abundance of people have die there . it be also impossible to tell what a quantity of goods and riches we find cast ashore there . all these object serve only to augment we grief . whereas in all other place river run from they channel into the sea , here a great river of fresh water run out of the sea into a dark cave , whose entrance be very high and large . what be most remarkable in this place be that the stone of the mountain be of crystal , ruby , or other precious stone . here be also a sort of fountain of pitch or bitumen , that run into the sea , which the fish swallow , and then vomit up again , turn into ambergris ; and this the wave throw up on the beach in great quantity . here also grow tree , most of which be wood of aloe , equal in goodness to those of Comari . to finish the description of this place , which may well be call a gulf , since nothing ever return from it -- it be not possible for ship to get away again when once they come near it . if they be drive thither by a wind from the sea , the wind and the current ruin they ; and if they come into it when a land-wind blow , which might seem to favor they get out again , the height of the mountain stop the wind , and occasion a calm , so that the force of the current run they ashore , where they be break to piece , as ours be ; and that which complete the misfortune be that there be no possibility to get to the top of the mountain , or to get out any manner of way . we continue upon the shore , like man out of they sens , and expect death every day . at first we divide we provision as equally as we could , and thus everyone live a longer or shorter time , accord to they temperance , and the use they make of they provision . those who die first be inter by the rest ; and , for my part , I pay the last duty to all my companion . nor be you to wonder at this ; for besides that I husband the provision that fall to my share better than they , I have provision of my own , which I do not share with my comrade ; yet when I bury the last , I have so little remain that I think I could not hold out long : so I dig a grave , resolve to lie down in it , because there be none leave to inter I . I must confess to you at the same time that while I be thus employ I could not but reflect upon myself as the cause of my own ruin , and repent that I have ever undertake this last voyage ; nor do I stop at reflection only , but have well nigh hasten my own death , and begin to tear my hand with my tooth . but it please God once more to take compassion on I , and put it in my mind to go to the bank of the river which run into the great cave ; where , consider the river with great attention , I say to myself , ` this river , which run thus under ground , must come out somewhere or other . if I make a raft , and leave myself to the current , it will bring I to some inhabit country , or drown I . if I be drown I lose nothing , but only change one kind of death for another ; and if I get out of this fatal place , I shall not only avoid the sad fate of my comrade , but perhaps find some new occasion of enrich myself . who know but fortune wait , upon my get off this dangerous shelf , to compensate my shipwreck with interest ? ' I immediately go to work on a raft . I make it of large piece of timber and cable , for I have choice of they , and tie they together so strongly that I have make a very solid little raft . when I have finish it I load it with some bale of ruby , emerald , ambergris , rock-crystal , and rich stuff . have balance all my cargo exactly and fasten it well to the raft , I go on board it with two little oar that I have make , and , leave it to the course of the river , I resign myself to the will of God . as soon as I come into the cave I lose all light , and the stream carry I I know not whither . thus I float for some day in perfect darkness , and once find the arch so low that it well nigh break my head , which make I very cautious afterwards to avoid the like danger . all this while I eat nothing but what be just necessary to support nature ; yet , notwithstanding this frugality , all my provision be spend . then a please sleep fall upon I . I can not tell how long it continue ; but when I awake , I be surprise to find myself in the middle of a vast country , at the bank of a river , where my raft be tie , amidst a great number of negro . I get up as soon as I see they and salute they . they speak to I , but I do not understand they language . I be so transport with joy that I know not whether I be asleep or awake ; but be persuade that I be not asleep , I recite the following word in Arabic aloud : ` call upon the Almighty , he will help thee ; thou needest not perplex thyself about anything else ; shut thy eye , and while thou art asleep , God will change thy bad fortune into good . ' one of the black , who understand Arabic , hear I speak thus , come towards I and say , ` brother , be not surprise to see we ; we be inhabitant of this country , and come hither to-day to water we field , by digging little canal from this river , which come out of the neighbouring mountain . we see something float upon the water , go speedily to find out what it be , and perceive you raft , one of we swim into the river , and bring it hither , where we fasten it , as you see , until you should awake . Pray tell we you history , for it must be extraordinary ; how do you venture into this river , and whence do you come ? ' I beg of they first to give I something to eat , and then I would satisfy they curiosity . they give I several sort of food ; and when I have satisfy my hunger , I give they a true account of all that have befall I , which they listen to with wonder . as soon as I have finish my discourse , they tell I , by the person who speak Arabic and interpret to they what I say , that it be one of the most surprising story they ever hear , and that I must go along with they , and tell it to they king myself ; the story be too extraordinary to be tell by any other than the person to whom it happen . I tell they I be ready to do whatever they please . they immediately send for a horse , which be bring in a little time ; and have make I get upon he , some of they walk before I to show I the way , and the rest take my raft and cargo , and follow I . we march thus altogether , till we come to the city of Serendib , for it be in that island I land . the black present I to they king ; I approach he throne , and salute he as I use to do the king of the Indies ; that be to say , I prostrate myself at he foot , and kiss the earth . the prince order I to rise up , receive I with a obliging air , and make I come up , and sit down near he . he first ask I my name , and I answer , ` they call I sinbad the sailor , because of the many voyage I have undertake , and I be a citizen of Baghdad . ' ` but , ' reply he , ` how come you into my dominion , and from whence come you last ? ' I conceal nothing from the king ; I tell he all that I have now tell you , and he majesty be so surprised and charm with it , that he command my adventure to be write in letter of gold , and lay up in the archive of he kingdom . at last my raft be bring in , and the bale open in he presence : he admire the quantity of wood of aloe and ambergris ; but , above all , the ruby and emerald , for he have none in he treasury that come near they . observe that he look on my jewel with pleasure , and view the most remarkable among they one after another , I fall prostrate at he foot , and take the liberty to say to he , ` Sir , not only my person be at you majesty 's service , but the cargo of the raft , and I would beg of you to dispose of it as you own . ' he answer I with a smile , ` Sinbad , I will take care not to covet anything of yours , nor to take anything from you that God have give you ; far from lessen you wealth , I design to augment it , and will not let you go out of my dominion without mark of my liberality . ' all the answer I return be prayer for the prosperity of this prince , and commendation of he generosity and bounty . he charge one of he officer to take care of I , and order people to serve I at he own charge . the officer be very faithful in the execution of he order , and cause all the goods to be carry to the lodgings provide for I . I go every day at a set hour to pay court to the king , and spend the rest of my time in see the city , and what be most worthy of notice . the Isle of Serendib be situate just under the equinoctial line , so that the day and night there be always of twelve hour each , and the island be eighty parasang in length , and as many in breadth . the capital city stand at the end of a fine valley form by a mountain in the middle of the island , which be the highest in the world . I make , by way of devotion , a pilgrimage to the place where Adam be confine after he banishment from Paradise , and have the curiosity to go to the top of it . when I come back to the city , I pray the king to allow I to return to my country , which he grant I in the most obliging and honorable manner . he would need force a rich present upon I , and when I go to take my leave of he , he give I one much more valuable , and at the same time charge I with a letter for the Commander of the Faithful , we sovereign , say to I , ` I pray you give this present from I and this letter to Caliph Haroun Alraschid , and assure he of my friendship . ' I take the present and letter in a very respectful manner , and promise he majesty punctually to execute the commission with which he be please to honor I . before I embark , this prince send for the captain and the merchant who be to go with I , and order they to treat I with all possible respect . the letter from the King of Serendib be write on the skin of a certain animal of great value , because of its be so scarce , and of a yellowish color . the writing be azure , and the contents as follow : -- ` the king of the Indies , before whom march a hundred elephant , who live in a palace that shine with a hundred thousand ruby , and who have in he treasury twenty thousand crown enrich with diamond , to Caliph Haroun Alraschid : ` though the present we send you be inconsiderable , receive it as a brother and a friend , in consideration of the hearty friendship which we bear to you , and of which we be willing to give you proof . we desire the same part in you friendship , consider that we believe it to be we merit , be of the same dignity with yourself . we conjure you this in the rank of a brother . Farewell . ' the present consist first , of one single ruby make into a cup , about half a foot high , a inch thick , and fill with round pearl . secondly , the skin of a serpent , whose scale be as large as a ordinary piece of gold , and have the virtue to preserve from sickness those who lay upon it . thirdly , fifty thousand drachm of the best wood of aloe , with thirty grain of camphor as big as pistachio . and fourthly , a she-slave of ravish beauty , whose apparel be cover all over with jewel . the ship set sail , and after a very long and successful voyage , we land at Balsora ; from thence I go to Bagdad , where the first thing I do be to acquit myself of my commission . I take the king of Serendib 's letter , and go to present myself at the gate of the Commander of the Faithful , follow by the beautiful slave and such of my own family as carry the present . I give a account of the reason of my come , and be immediately conduct to the throne of the caliph . I make my reverence , and after a short speech give he the letter and present . when he have read what the king of Serendib write to he , he ask I if that prince be really so rich and potent as he have say in this letter . I prostrate myself a second time , and rise again , ` Commander of the Faithful , ' say I , ` I can assure you majesty he doth not exceed the truth on that head : I be witness of it . there be nothing more capable of raise a man 's admiration than the magnificence of he palace . when the prince appear in public , he have a throne fix on the back of a elephant , and march betwixt two rank of he minister , favorite , and other people of he court ; before he , upon the same elephant , a officer carry a golden lance in he hand , and behind the throne there be another , who stand upright with a column of gold , on the top of which there be a emerald half a foot long and a inch thick ; before he march a guard of a thousand man , clothe in cloth of gold and silk , and mount on elephant richly caparison . ` while the king be on he march , the officer who be before he on the same elephant cry from time to time , with a loud voice , `` behold the great monarch , the potent and redoubtable sultan of the Indies , whose palace be cover with a hundred thousand ruby , and who possess twenty thousand crown of diamond . '' after he have pronounce these word , the officer behind the throne cry in he turn , `` this monarch so great and so powerful , must die , must die , must die . '' and the officer in front reply , `` praise be to he who live for ever . '' ` further , the King of Serendib be so just that there be no judge in he dominion . he people have no need of they . they understand and observe justice of themselves . ' the caliph be much please with my discourse . ` the wisdom of this king , ' say he , ` appear in he letter , and after what you tell I I must confess that he wisdom be worthy of he people , and he people deserve so wise a prince . ' have speak thus he dismiss I , and send I home with a rich present .