60 the two BrothersS BrothersS Grimm there be once upon a time two brother , one rich and the other poor . the rich one be a goldsmith and evil-hearted . the poor one support himself by make broom , and be good and honorable . the poor one have two child , who be twin brother and as like each other as two drop of water . the two boy go backwards and forwards to the rich house , and often get some of the scrap to eat . it happen once when the poor man be go into the forest to fetch brush-wood , that he see a bird which be quite golden and more beautiful than any he have ever chance to meet with . he pick up a small stone , throw it at he , and be lucky enough to hit he , but one golden feather only fall down , and the bird fly away . the man take the feather and carry it to he brother , who look at it and say , `` it be pure gold ! '' and give he a great deal of money for it . next day the man climb into a birch-tree , and be about to cut off a couple of branch when the same bird fly out , and when the man search he find a nest , and a egg lay inside it , which be of gold . he take the egg home with he , and carry it to he brother , who again say , `` it be pure gold , '' and give he what it be worth . at last the goldsmith say , `` I should indeed like to have the bird itself . '' the poor man go into the forest for the third time , and again see the golden bird sit on the tree , so he take a stone and bring it down and carry it to he brother , who give he a great heap of gold for it . `` now I can get on , '' think he , and go contentedly home . the goldsmith be crafty and cunning , and know very well what kind of a bird it be . he call he wife and say , `` Roast I the gold bird , and take care that none of it be lose . I have a fancy to eat it all myself . '' the bird , however , be no common one , but of so wondrous a kind that whosoever eat its heart and liver find every morning a piece of gold beneath he pillow . the woman make the bird ready , put it on the spit , and let it roast . now it happen that while it be at the fire , and the woman be force to go out of the kitchen on account of some other work , the two child of the poor broom-maker run in , stand by the spit and turn it round once or twice . and as at that very moment two little bit of the bird fall down into the dripping-tin , one of the boy say , `` we will eat these two little bit ; I be so hungry , and no one will ever miss they . '' then the two eat the piece , but the woman come into the kitchen and see that they be eat something and say , `` what have ye be eat ? '' `` two little morsel which fall out of the bird , '' answer they . `` that must have be the heart and the liver , '' say the woman , quite frightened , and in order that she husband might not miss they and be angry , she quickly kill a young cock , take out he heart and liver , and put they beside the golden bird . when it be ready , she carry it to the goldsmith , who consume it all alone , and leave none of it . next morning , however , when he feel beneath he pillow , and expect to bring out the piece of gold , no more gold piece be there than there have always be . the two child do not know what a piece of good-fortune have fall to they lot . next morning when they arise , something fall rattle to the ground , and when they pick it up there be two gold piece ! they take they to they father , who be astonish and say , `` how can that have happen ? '' when next morning they again find two , and so on daily , he go to he brother and tell he the strange story . the goldsmith at once know how it have come to pass , and that the child have eat the heart and liver of the golden bird , and in order to revenge himself , and because he be envious and hard-hearted , he say to the father , `` thy child be in league with the Evil one , do not take the gold , and do not suffer they to stay any longer in thy house , for he have they in he power , and may ruin thee likewise . '' the father fear the Evil one , and painful as it be to he , he nevertheless lead the twin forth into the forest , and with a sad heart leave they there . and now the two child run about the forest , and seek the way home again , but could not find it , and only lose themselves more and more . at length they meet with a huntsman , who ask , `` to whom do you child belong ? '' `` we be the poor broom-maker 's boy , '' they reply , and they tell he that they father would not keep they any longer in the house because a piece of gold lay every morning under they pillow . `` come , '' say the huntsman , `` that be nothing so very bad , if at the same time you keep honest , and be not idle . '' as the good man like the child , and have none of he own , he take they home with he and say , `` I will be you father , and bring you up till you be big . '' they learn huntsmanship from he , and the piece of gold which each of they find when he awake , be keep for they by he in case they should need it in the future . when they be grow up , they foster-father one day take they into the forest with he , and say , `` to-day shall you make you trial shot , so that I may release you from you apprenticeship , and make you huntsman . '' they go with he to lie in wait and stay there a long time , but no game appear . the huntsman , however , look above he and see a covey of wild goose fly in the form of a triangle , and say to one of they , `` shoot I down one from each corner . '' he do it , and thus accomplish he trial shot . soon after another covey come fly by in the form of the figure two , and the huntsman bid the other also bring down one from each corner , and he trial shot be likewise successful . `` now , '' say the foster-father , `` I pronounce you out of you apprenticeship ; you be skilled huntsman . '' Thereupon the two brother go forth together into the forest , and take counsel with each other and planned something . and in the evening when they have sit down to supper , they say to they foster-father , `` we will not touch food , or take one mouthful , until you have grant we a request . '' Said he , `` what , then , be you request ? '' they reply , `` we have now finish learning , and we must prove ourselves in the world , so allow we to go away and travel . '' then speak the old man joyfully , `` you talk like brave huntsman , that which you desire have be my wish ; go forth , all will go well with you . '' Thereupon they eat and drank joyously together . when the appointed day come , they foster-father present each of they with a good gun and a dog , and let each of they take as many of he saved-up gold piece as he choose . then he accompany they a part of the way , and when take leave , he give they a bright knife , and say , `` if ever you separate , stick this knife into a tree at the place where you part , and when one of you go back , he will will be able to see how he absent brother be fare , for the side of the knife which be turn in the direction by which he go , will rust if he die , but will remain bright as long as he be alive . '' the two brother go still farther onwards , and come to a forest which be so large that it be impossible for they to get out of it in one day . so they pass the night in it , and eat what they have put in they hunting-pouches , but they walk all the second day likewise , and still do not get out . as they have nothing to eat , one of they say , `` we must shoot something for ourselves or we shall suffer from hunger , '' and load he gun , and look about he . and when a old hare come run up towards they , he lay he gun on he shoulder , but the hare cry , `` dear huntsman , do but let I live , two little one to thee I 'll give , '' and spring instantly into the thicket , and bring two young one . but the little creature play so merrily , and be so pretty , that the huntsman could not find it in they heart to kill they . they therefore keep they with they , and the little hare follow on foot . soon after this , a fox creep past ; they be just go to shoot it , but the fox cry , `` dear hunstman , do but let I live , two little one I 'll also give . '' he , too , bring two little fox , and the huntsman do not like to kill they either , but give they to the hare for company , and they follow behind . it be not long before a wolf stride out of the thicket ; the huntsman make ready to shoot he , but the wolf cry , `` dear huntsman , do but let I live , two little one I 'll likewise give . '' the huntsman put the two wolf beside the other animal , and they follow behind they . then a bear come who want to trot about a little longer , and cry : `` dear huntsman , do but let I live , two little one I , too , will give . '' the two young bear be add to the other , and there be already eight of they . at length who come ? a lion come , and toss he mane . but the huntsman do not let themselves be frighten and aim at he likewise , but the lion also say , `` dear huntsman , do but let I live , two little one I , too , will give . '' and he bring he little one to they , and now the huntsman have two lion , two bear , two wolf , two fox , and two hare , who follow they and serve they . in thu meantime they hunger be not appease by this , and they say to the fox , `` Hark ye , cunning fellow , provide we with something to eat . you be crafty and deep . '' they reply , `` not far from here lie a village , from which we have already bring many a fowl ; we will show you the way there . '' so they go into the village , buy themselves something to eat , have some food give to they beast , and then travel onward . the fox , however , know they way very well about the district and where the poultry-yards be , and be able to guide the huntsman . now they travel about for a while , but could find no situation where they could remain together , so they say , `` there be nothing else for it , we must part . '' they divide the animal , so that each of they have a lion , a bear , a wolf , a fox , and a hare , then they take leave of each other , promise to love each other like brother till they death , and stick the knife which they foster-father have give they , into a tree , after which one go east , and the other go west . the younger , however , arrive with he beast in a town which be all hang with black crape . he go into a inn , and ask the host if he could accommodate he animal . the innkeeper give he a stable , where there be a hole in the wall , and the hare creep out and fetch himself the head of a cabbage , and the fox fetch himself a hen , and when he have devour that get the cock as well , but the wolf , the bear , and the lion could not get out because they be too big . then the innkeeper let they be take to a place where a cow be just then lie on the grass , that they might eat till they be satisfy . and when the huntsman have take care of he animal , he ask the innkeeper why the town be thus hang with black crape ? Said the host , `` because we King 's only daughter be to die to-morrow . '' the huntsman inquire if she be `` sick unto death ? '' `` no , '' answer the host , `` she be vigorous and healthy , nevertheless she must die ! '' `` how be that ? '' ask the huntsman . `` there be a high hill without the town , whereon dwell a dragon who every year must have a pure virgin , or he lay the whole country waste , and now all the maiden have already be give to he , and there be no longer anyone leave but the King 's daughter , yet there be no mercy for she ; she must be give up to he , and that be to be do to-morrow . '' Said the huntsman , `` why be the dragon not kill ? '' `` ah , '' reply the host , `` so many knight have try it , but it have cost all of they they life . the King have promise that he who conquer the dragon shall have he daughter to wife , and shall likewise govern the kingdom after he own death . '' the huntsman say nothing more to this , but next morning take he animal , and with they ascend the dragon 's hill . a little church stand at the top of it , and on the altar three full cup be stand , with the inscription , `` Whosoever empty the cup will become the strongest man on earth , and will be able to wield the sword which be bury before the threshold of the door . '' the huntsman do not drink , but go out and seek for the sword in the ground , but be unable to move it from its place . then he go in and empty the cup , and now he be strong enough to take up the sword , and he hand could quite easily wield it . when the hour come when the maiden be to be deliver over to the dragon , the King , the marshal , and courtier accompany she . from afar she see the huntsman on the dragon 's hill , and think it be the dragon standing there wait for she , and do not want to go up to he , but at last , because otherwise the whole town would have be destroy , she be force to go the miserable journey . the King and courtier return home full of grief ; the King 's marshal , however , be to stand still , and see all from a distance . when the King 's daughter get to the top of the hill , it be not the dragon which stand there , but the young huntsman , who comfort she , and say he would save she , lead she into the church , and lock she in . it be not long before the seven-headed dragon come thither with loud roaring . when he perceive the huntsman , he be astonish and say , `` what business hast thou here on the hill ? '' the huntsman answer , `` I want to fight with thee . '' Said the dragon , `` many knight have leave they life here , I shall soon have make a end of thee too , '' and he breathe fire out of seven jaw . the fire be to have light the dry grass , and the huntsman be to have be suffocate in the heat and smoke , but the animal come run up and trample out the fire . then the dragon rush upon the huntsman , but he swing he sword until it sing through the air , and strike off three of he head . then the dragon grow right furious , and rise up in the air , and spit out flame of fire over the huntsman , and be about to plunge down on he , but the huntsman once more draw out he sword , and again cut off three of he head . the monster become faint and sink down , nevertheless it be just able to rush upon the huntsman , but he with he last strength smite its tail off , and as he could fight no longer , call up he animal who tear it in piece . when the struggle be end , the huntsman unlock the church , and find the King 's daughter lie on the floor , as she have lose she sens with anguish and terror during the contest . he carry she out , and when she come to herself once more , and open she eye , he show she the dragon all cut to piece , and tell she that she be now deliver . she rejoice and say , `` now thou wilt be my dearest husband , for my father have promise I to he who kill the dragon . '' Thereupon she take off she necklace of coral , and divide it amongst the animal in order to reward they , and the lion receive the golden clasp . she pocket-handkerchief , however , on which be she name , she give to the huntsman , who go and cut the tongue out of the dragon 's seven head , wrap they in the handkerchief , and preserve they carefully . that do , as he be so faint and weary with the fire and the battle , he say to the maiden , `` we be both faint and weary , we will sleep awhile . '' then she say , `` yes , '' and they lay down on the ground , and the huntsman say to the lion , `` Thou shalt keep watch , that no one surprise we in we sleep , '' and both fall asleep . the lion lay down beside they to watch , but he also be so weary with the fight , that he call to the bear and say , `` lie down near I , I must sleep a little : if anything come , waken I . '' then the bear lay down beside he , but he also be tire , and call the wolf and say , `` lie down by I , I must sleep a little , but if anything come , waken I . '' then the wolf lay down by he , but he be tire likewise , and call the fox and say , `` lie down by I , I must sleep a little ; if anything come , waken I . '' then the fox lay down beside he , but he too be weary , and call the hare and say , `` lie down near I , I must sleep a little , and if anything should come , waken I . '' then the hare sit down by he , but the poor hare be tire too , and have no one whom he could call there to keep watch , and fall asleep . and now the King 's daughter , the huntsman , the lion , the bear , the wolf , the fox , and the hare , be all sleep a sound sleep . the marshal , however , who be to look on from a distance , take courage when he do not see the dragon fly away with the maiden , and find that all the hill have become quiet , ascend it . there lay the dragon hack and hew to piece on the ground , and not far from it be the King 's daughter and a huntsman with he animal , and all of they be sink in a sound sleep . and as he be wicked and godless he take he sword , cut off the huntsman 's head , and seize the maiden in he arm , and carry she down the hill . then she awake and be terrify , but the marshal say , `` Thou art in my hand , thou shalt say that it be I who kill the dragon . '' `` I can not do that , '' she reply , `` for it be a huntsman with he animal who do it . '' then he draw he sword , and threaten to kill she if she do not obey he , and so compel she that she promise it . then he take she to the King , who do not know how to contain himself for joy when he once more look on he dear child in life , whom he have believe to have be tear to piece by the monster . the marshal say to he , `` I have kill the dragon , and deliver the maiden and the whole kingdom as well , therefore I demand she as my wife , as be promise . '' the King say to the maiden , `` be what he say true ? '' `` ah , yes , '' she answer , `` it must indeed be true , but I will not consent to have the wedding celebrate until after a year and a day , '' for she think in that time she should hear something of she dear huntsman . the animal , however , be still lie sleep beside they dead master on the dragon 's hill , and there come a great humble-bee and light on the hare 's nose , but the hare wipe it off with he paw , and go on sleeping . the humble-bee come a second time , but the hare again rub it off and sleep on . then it come for the third time , and sting he nose so that he awake . as soon as the hare be awake , he rouse the fox , and the fox , the wolf , and the wolf the bear , and the bear the lion . and when the lion awake and see that the maiden be go , and he master be dead , he begin to roar frightfully and cry , `` who have do that ? Bear , why didst thou not waken I ? '' the bear ask the wolf , `` why didst thou not waken I ? '' and the wolf the fox , `` why didst thou not waken I ? '' and the fox the hare , `` why didst thou not waken I ? '' the poor hare alone do not know what answer to make , and the blame rest with he . then they be just go to fall upon he , but he entreat they and say , `` kill I not , I will bring we master to life again . I know a mountain on which a root grow which , when place in the mouth of any one , cure he of all illness and every wound . but the mountain lie two hundred hour journey from here . '' the lion say , `` in four-and-twenty hour must thou have run thither and have come back , and have bring the root with thee . '' then the hare spring away , and in four-and-twenty hour he be back , and bring the root with he . the lion put the huntsman 's head on again , and the hare place the root in he mouth , and immediately everything unite together again , and he heart beat , and life come back . then the huntsman awake , and be alarm when he do not see the maiden , and think , `` she must have go away whilst I be sleep , in order to get rid of I . '' the lion in he great haste have put he master 's head on the wrong way round , but the huntsman do not observe it because of he melancholy thought about the King 's daughter . but at noon , when he be go to eat something , he see that he head be turn backwards and could not understand it , and ask the animal what have happen to he in he sleep . then the lion tell he that they , too , have all fall asleep from weariness , and on awake , have find he dead with he head cut off , that the hare have bring the life-giving root , and that he , in he haste , have lay hold of the head the wrong way , but that he would repair he mistake . then he tear the huntsman 's head off again , turn it round , and the hare heal it with the root . the huntsman , however , be sad at heart , and travel about the world , and make he animal dance before people . it come to pass that precisely at the end of one year he come back to the same town where he have deliver the King 's daughter from the dragon , and this time the town be gaily hang with red cloth . then he say to the host , `` what do this mean ? last year the town be all hang with black crape , what mean the red cloth to-day ? '' the host answer , `` last year we King 's daughter be to have be deliver over to the dragon , but the marshal fight with it and kill it , and so to-morrow they wedding be to be solemnize , and that be why the town be then hang with black crape for mourn , and be to-day cover with red cloth for joy ? '' next day when the wedding be to take place , the huntsman say at mid-day to the inn-keeper , `` do you believe , sir host , that I while with you here to-day shall eat bread from the King 's own table ? '' `` Nay , '' say the host , `` I would bet a hundred piece of gold that that will not come true . '' the huntsman accept the wager , and set against it a purse with just the same number of gold piece . then he call the hare and say , `` go , my dear runner , and fetch I some of the bread which the King be eat . '' now the little hare be the lowest of the animal , and could not transfer this order to any the other , but have to get on he leg himself . `` Alas ! '' thought he , `` if I bind through the street thus alone , the butcher ' dog will all be after I . '' it happen as he expect , and the dog come after he and want to make hole in he good skin . but he spring away , have you have never see one running ? and sheltered himself in a sentry-box without the soldier be aware of it . then the dog come and want to have he out , but the soldier do not understand a jest , and strike they with the butt-end of he gun , till they run away yell and howl . as soon as the hare see that the way be clear , he run into the palace and straight to the King 's daughter , sit down under she chair , and scratch at she foot . then she say , `` wilt thou get away ? '' and think it be she dog . the hare scratch she foot for the second time , and she again say , `` wilt thou get away ? '' and think it be she dog . but the hare do not let itself be turn from its purpose , and scratch she for the third time . then she peep down , and know the hare by its collar . she take he on she lap , carry he into she chamber , and say , `` Dear Hare , what dost thou want ? '' he answer , `` my master , who kill the dragon , be here , and have send I to ask for a loaf of bread like that which the King eat . '' then she be full of joy and have the baker summon , and order he to bring a loaf such as be eat by the King . the little hare say , `` but the baker must likewise carry it thither for I , that the butcher ' dog may do no harm to I . '' the baker carry if for he as far as the door of the inn , and then the hare get on he hind leg , take the loaf in he front paw , and carry it to he master . then say the huntsman , `` Behold , sir host , the hundred piece of gold be mine . '' the host be astonish , but the huntsman go on to say , `` yes , sir host , I have the bread , but now I will likewise have some of the King 's roast meat . '' the host say , `` I should indeed like to see that , '' but he would make no more wager . the huntsman call the fox and say , `` my little fox , go and fetch I some roast meat , such as the King eat . '' the red fox know the bye-ways better , and go by hole and corner without any dog see he , seat himself under the chair of the King 's daughter , and scratch she foot . then she look down and recognize the fox by its collar , take he into she chamber with she and say , `` dear fox , what dost thou want ? '' he answer , `` my master , who kill the dragon , be here , and have send I . I be to ask for some roast meat such as the King be eat . '' then she make the cook come , who be oblige to prepare a roast joint , the same as be eat by the King , and to carry it for the fox as far as the door . then the fox take the dish , wave away with he tail the fly which have settle on the meat , and then carry it to he master . `` Behold , sir host , '' say the huntsman , `` bread and meat be here but now I will also have proper vegetable with it , such as be eat by the King . '' then he call the wolf , and say , `` Dear Wolf , go thither and fetch I vegetable such as the King eat . '' then the wolf go straight to the palace , as he fear no one , and when he get to the King 's daughter 's chamber , he twitch at the back of she dress , so that she be force to look round . she recognize he by he collar , and take he into she chamber with she , and say , `` Dear Wolf , what dost thou want ? '' he answer , `` my master , who kill the dragon , be here , I be to ask for some vegetable , such as the King eat . '' then she make the cook come , and he have to make ready a dish of vegetable , such as the King eat , and have to carry it for the wolf as far as the door , and then the wolf take the dish from he , and carry it to he master . `` Behold , sir host , '' say the huntsman , `` now I have bread and meat and vegetable , but I will also have some pastry to eat like that which the King eat . '' he call the bear , and say , `` Dear Bear , thou art fond of lick anything sweet ; go and bring I some confectionery , such as the King eat . '' then the bear trot to the palace , and every one get out of he way , but when he go to the guard , they present they musket , and would not let he go into the royal palace . but he get up on he hind leg , and give they a few box on the ear , right and leave , with he paw , so that the whole watch break up , and then he go straight to the King 's daughter , place himself behind she , and growl a little . then she look behind she , know the bear , and bid he go into she room with she , and say , `` Dear Bear , what dost thou want ? '' he answer , `` my master , who kill the dragon , be here , and I be to ask for some confectionery , such as the King eat . '' then she summon she confectioner , who have to bake confectionery such as the King eat , and carry it to the door for the bear ; then the bear first lick up the comfit which have roll down , and then he stand upright , take the dish , and carry it to he master . `` Behold , sir host , '' say the huntsman , `` now I have bread , meat , vegetable and confectionery , but I will drink wine also , and such as the King drink . '' he call he lion to he and say , `` Dear Lion , thou thyself likest to drink till thou art intoxicate , go and fetch I some wine , such as be drunk by the King . '' then the lion stride through the street , and the people flee from he , and when he come to the watch , they want to bar the way against he , but he do but roar once , and they all run away . then the lion go to the royal apartment , and knock at the door with he tail . then the King 's daughter come forth , and be almost afraid of the lion , but she know he by the golden clasp of she necklace , and bid he go with she into she chamber , and say , `` Dear Lion , what wilt thou have ? '' he answer , `` my master , who kill the dragon , be here , and I be to ask for some wine such as be drunk by the King . '' then she bid the cup-bearer be call , who be to give the lion some wine like that which be drunk by the King . the lion say , `` I will go with he , and see that I get the right wine . '' then he go down with the cup-bearer , and when they be below , the cup-bearer want to draw he some of the common wine that be drunk by the King 's servant , but the lion say , `` Stop , I will taste the wine first , '' and he draw half a measure , and swallow it down at one draught . `` no , '' say he , `` that be not right . '' the cup-bearer look at he askance , but go on , and be about to give he some out of another barrel which be for the King 's marshal . the lion say , `` stop , let I taste the wine first , '' and draw half a measure and drink it . `` that be better , but still not right , '' say he . then the cup-bearer grow angry and say , `` how can a stupid animal like you understand wine ? '' but the lion give he a blow behind the ear , which make he fall down by no means gently , and when he have get up again , he conduct the lion quite silently into a little cellar apart , where the King 's wine lay , from which no one ever drank . the lion first draw half a measure and try the wine , and then he say , that may possibly be the right sort , and bid the cup-bearer fill six bottle of it . and now they go upstairs again , but when the lion come out of the cellar into the open air , he reel here and there , and be rather drunk , and the cup-bearer be force to carry the wine as far as the door for he , and then the lion take the handle of the basket in he mouth , and take it to he master . the huntsman say , `` Behold , sir host , here have I bread , meat , vegetable , confectionery and wine such as the King have , and now I will dine with my animal , '' and he sit down and eat and drank , and give the hare , the fox , the wolf , the bear , and the lion also to eat and to drink , and be joyful , for he see that the King 's daughter still love he . and when he have finish he dinner , he say , `` Sir host , now have I eat and drunk , as the King eat and drink , and now I will go to the King 's court and marry the King 's daughter . '' Said the host , `` how can that be , when she already have a betrothed husband , and when the wedding be to be solemnize to-day ? '' then the huntsman draw forth the handkerchief which the King 's daughter have give he on the dragon 's hill , and in which be fold the monster 's seven tongue , and say , `` that which I hold in my hand shall help I to do it . '' then the innkeeper look at the handkerchief , and say , `` whatever I believe , I do not believe that , and I be willing to stake my house and courtyard on it . '' the huntsman , however , take a bag with a thousand gold piece , put it on the table , and say , `` I stake that on it . '' now the King say to he daughter , at the royal table , `` what do all the wild animal want , which have be come to thee , and go in and out of my palace ? '' she reply , `` I may not tell you , but send and have the master of these animal bring , and you will do well . '' the King send a servant to the inn , and invite the stranger , and the servant come just as the huntsman have lay he wager with the innkeeper . then say he , `` Behold , sir host , now the King send he servant and invite I , but I do not go in this way . '' and he say to the servant , `` I request the Lord King to send I royal clothing , and a carriage with six horse , and servant to attend I . '' when the King hear the answer , he say to he daughter , `` what shall I do ? '' she say , `` cause he to be fetch as he desire to be , and you will do well . '' then the King send royal apparel , a carriage with six horse , and servant to wait on he . when the huntsman see they come , he say , `` Behold , sir host , now I be fetch as I desire to be , '' and he put on the royal garment , take the handkerchief with the dragon 's tongue with he , and drive off to the King . when the King see he come , he say to he daughter , `` how shall I receive he ? '' she answer , `` go to meet he and you will do well . '' then the King go to meet he and lead he in , and he animal follow . the King give he a seat near himself and he daughter , and the marshal , as bridegroom , sit on the other side , but no longer know the huntsman . and now at this very moment , the seven head of the dragon be bring in as a spectacle , and the King say , `` the seven head be cut off the dragon by the marshal , wherefore to-day I give he my daughter to wife . '' the the huntsman stand up , open the seven mouth , and say , `` where be the seven tongue of the dragon ? '' then be the marshal terrify , and grow pale and know not what answer he should make , and at length in he anguish he say , `` dragon have no tongue . '' the huntsman say , `` liar ought to have none , but the dragon 's tongue be the token of the victor , '' and he unfold the handkerchief , and there lay all seven inside it . and he put each tongue in the mouth to which it belong , and it fit exactly . then he take the handkerchief on which the name of the princess be embroider , and show it to the maiden , and ask to whom she have give it , and she reply , `` to he who kill the dragon . '' and then he call he animal , and take the collar off each of they and the golden clasp from the lion , and show they to the maiden and ask to whom they belong . she answer , `` the necklace and golden clasp be mine , but I divide they among the animal who help to conquer the dragon . '' then speak the huntsman , `` when I , tire with the fight , be rest and sleep , the marshal come and cut off my head . then he carry away the King 's daughter , and give out that it be he who have kill the dragon , but that he lie I prove with the tongue , the handkerchief , and the necklace . '' and then he relate how he animal have heal he by means of a wonderful root , and how he have travel about with they for one year , and have at length again come there and have learn the treachery of the marshal by the inn-keeper 's story . then the King ask he daughter , `` be it true that this man kill the dragon ? '' and she answer , `` yes , it be true . now can I reveal the wicked deed of the marshal , as it have come to light without my connivance , for he wring from I a promise to be silent . for this reason , however , do I make the condition that the marriage should not be solemnize for a year and a day . '' then the King bade twelve councillor be summon who be to pronounce judgment on the marshal , and they sentence he to be tear to piece by four bull . the marshal be therefore execute , but the King give he daughter to the huntsman , and name he he viceroy over the whole kingdom . the wedding be celebrate with great joy , and the young King cause he father and he foster-father to be bring , and load they with treasure . neither do he forget the inn-keeper , but send for he and say , `` Behold , sir host , I have marry the King 's daughter , and you house and yard be mine . '' the host say , `` yes , accord to justice it be so . '' but the young King say , `` it shall be do accord to mercy , '' and tell he that he should keep he house and yard , and give he the thousand piece of gold as well . and now the young King and Queen be thoroughly happy , and live in gladness together . he often go out hunting because it be a delight to he , and the faithful animal have to accompany he . in the neighborhood , however , there be a forest of which it be report that it be haunt , and that whosoever do but enter it do not easily get out again . the young King , however , have a great inclination to hunt in it , and let the old King have no peace until he allow he to do so . so he ride forth with a great following , and when he come to the forest , he see a snow-white hart and say to he people , `` wait here until I return , I want to chase that beautiful creature , '' and he ride into the forest after it , follow only by he animal . the attendant halt and wait until evening , but he do not return , so they ride home , and tell the young Queen that the young King have follow a white hart into the enchant forest , and have not come back again . then she be in the greatest concern about he . he , however , have still continue to ride on and on after the beautiful wild animal , and have never be able to overtake it ; when he think he be near enough to aim , he instantly see it bind away into the far distance , and at length it vanish altogether . and now he perceive that he have penetrate deep into the forest , and blow he horn but he receive no answer , for he attendant could not hear it . and as night , too , be fall , he see that he could not get home that day , so he dismount from he horse , light himself a fire near a tree , and resolve to spend the night by it . while he be sit by the fire , and he animal also be lie down beside he , it seem to he that he hear a human voice . he look round , but could perceive nothing . soon afterwards , he again hear a groan as if from above , and then he look up , and see a old woman sit in the tree , who wail unceasingly , `` oh , oh , oh , how cold I be ! '' Said he , `` come down , and warm thyself if thou art cold . '' but she say , `` no , thy animal will bite I . '' he answer , `` they will do thee no harm , old mother , do come down . '' she , however , be a witch , and say , `` I will throw down a wand from the tree , and if thou strikest they on the back with it , they will do I no harm . '' then she throw he a small wand , and he strike they with it , and instantly they lay still and be turn into stone . and when the witch be safe from the animal , she leap down and touch he also with a wand , and change he to stone . Thereupon she laugh , and drag he and the animal into a vault , where many more such stone already lay . as , however , the young King do not come back at all , the Queen 's anguish and care grow constantly greater . and it so happen that at this very time the other brother who have turn to the east when they separate , come into the kingdom . he have seek a situation , and have find none , and have then travel about here and there , and have make he animal dance . then it come into he mind that he would just go and look at the knife that they have thrust in the trunk of a tree at they parting , that he might learn how he brother be . when he get there he brother 's side of the knife be half rust , and half bright . then he be alarm and think , `` a great misfortune must have befall my brother , but perhaps I can still save he , for half the knife be still bright . '' he and he animal travel towards the west , and when he enter the gate of the town , the guard come to meet he , and ask if he be to announce he to he consort the young Queen , who have for a couple of day be in the greatest sorrow about he staying away , and be afraid he have be kill in the enchant forest ? the sentry , indeed , think no otherwise than that he be the young King himself , for he look so like he , and have wild animal run behind he . then he see that they be speak of he brother , and think , `` it will be better if I pass myself off for he , and then I can rescue he more easily . '' so he allow himself to be escort into the castle by the guard , and be receive with the greatest joy . the young Queen indeed think that he be she husband , and ask he why he have stay away so long . he answer , `` I have lose myself in a forest , and could not find my way out again any sooner . '' at night he be take to the royal bed , but he lay a two-edged sword between he and the young Queen ; she do not know what that could mean , but do not venture to ask . he remain in the palace a couple of day , and in the meantime inquire into everything which relate to the enchant forest , and at last he say , `` I must hunt there once more . '' the King and the young Queen want to persuade he not to do it , but he stand out against they , and go forth with a larger following . when he have get into the forest , it fare with he as with he brother ; he see a white hart and say to he people , `` Stay here , and wait until I return , I want to chase the lovely wild beast , '' and then he ride into the forest and he animal run after he . but he could not overtake the hart , and get so deep into the forest that he be force to pass the night there . and when he have light a fire , he hear some one wail above he , `` oh , oh , oh , how cold I be ! '' then he look up , and the self-same witch be sit in the tree . Said he , `` if thou art cold , come down , little old mother , and warm thyself . '' she answer , `` no , thy animal will bite I . '' but he say , `` they will not hurt thee . '' then she cry , `` I will throw down a wand to thee , and if thou smitest they with it they will do I no harm . '' when the huntsman hear that , he have no confidence in the old woman , and say , `` I will not strike my animal . come down , or I will fetch thee . '' then she cry , `` what dost thou want ? Thou shalt not touch I . '' but he reply , `` if thou dost not come , I will shoot thee . '' Said she , `` shoot away , I do not fear thy bullet ! '' then he aim , and fire at she , but the witch be proof against all leaden bullet , and laugh , and yell and cry , `` Thou shalt not hit I . '' the huntsman know what to do , tear three silver button off he coat , and load he gun with they , for against they she art be useless , and when he fire she fall down at once with a scream . then he set he foot on she and say , Old witch , if thou dost not instantly confess where my brother be , I will seize thee with both my hand and throw thee into the fire . she be in a great fright , beg for mercy and say , he and he animal lie in a vault , turn to stone . then he compel she to go thither with he , threaten she , and say , Old sea-cat , now shalt thou make my brother and all the human being lie here , alive again , or thou shalt go into the fire ! she take a wand and touch the stone , and then he brother with he animal come to life again , and many other , merchant , artizan , and shepherd , arise , thank he for they deliverance , and go to they home . but when the twin brother see each other again , they kiss each other and rejoiced with all they heart . then they seize the witch , bind she and lay she on the fire , and when she be burn the forest open of its own accord , and be light and clear , and the King 's palace could be see at about the distance of a three hour walk . Thereupon the two brother go home together , and on the way tell each other they history . and when the youngest say that he be ruler of the whole country in the King 's stead , the other observed , `` that I remark very well , for when I come to the town , and be take for thee , all royal honor be pay I ; the young Queen look on I as she husband , and I have to eat at she side , and sleep in thy bed . '' when the other hear that , he become so jealous and angry that he draw he sword , and strike off he brother 's head . but when he see he lie there dead , and see he red blood flow , he repent most violently : `` my brother deliver I , '' cry he , `` and I have kill he for it , '' and he bewail he aloud . then he hare come and offer to go and bring some of the root of life , and bound away and bring it while yet there be time , and the dead man be bring to life again , and know nothing about the wound . after this they journey onward , and the youngest say , `` Thou lookest like I , hast royal apparel on as I have , and the animal follow thee as they do I ; we will go in by opposite gate , and arrive at the same time from the two side in the age King 's presence . '' so they separate , and at the same time come the watchman from the one door and from the other , and announce that the young King and the animal have return from the chase . the King say , `` it be not possible , the gate lie quite a mile apart . '' in the meantime , however , the two brother enter the courtyard of the palace from opposite side , and both mount the step . then the King say to the daughter , `` say which be thy husband . each of they look exactly like the other , I can not tell . '' then she be in great distress , and could not tell ; but at last she remember the necklace which she have give to the animal , and she seek for and find she little golden clasp on the lion , and she cry in she delight , `` he who be follow by this lion be my true husband '' . then the young King laugh and say , `` yes , he be the right one , '' and they sit down together to table , and eat and drank , and be merry . at night when the young King go to bed , he wife say , `` why hast thou for these last night always lay a two-edged sword in we bed ? I think thou hadst a wish to kill I . '' then he know how true he brother have be .