23 the Mouse , the Bird , and the Sausage BrothersS Grimm once on a time a mouse , a bird , and a sausage become companion , keep house together , live well and happily with each other , and wonderfully increase they possession . the bird 's work be to fly every day into the forest and bring back wood . the mouse have to carry water , light the fire , and lay the table , but the sausage have to cook . he who be too well off be always longing for something new . one day , therefore , the bird meet with another bird , on the way , to whom it relate its excellent circumstance and boast of they . the other bird , however , call it a poor simpleton for he hard work , but say that the two at home have good time . for when the mouse have make she fire and carry she water , she go into she little room to rest until they call she to lay the table . the sausage stay by the pot , see that the food be cook well , and , when it be nearly time for dinner , it roll itself once or twice through the broth or vegetable and then they be butter , salt , and ready . when the bird come home and lay he burden down , they sit down to dinner , and after they have have they meal , they sleep they fill till next morning , and that be a splendid life . next day the bird , prompt by the other bird , would go no more into the wood , say that he have be servant long enough , and have be make a fool of by they , and that they must change about for once , and try to arrange it in another way . and , though the mouse and the sausage also beg most earnestly , the bird would have he way , and say it must be try . they cast lot about it , and the lot fall on the sausage who be to carry wood , the mouse become cook , and the bird be to fetch water . what happen ? the little sausage go out towards the wood , the little bird light the fire , the mouse stay by the pot and wait alone until little sausage come home and bring wood for next day . but the little sausage stay so long on the road that they both fear something be amiss , and the bird fly out a little way in the air to meet it . not far off , however , it meet a dog on the road who have fall on the poor sausage as lawful booty , and have seize and swallow it . the bird charge the dog with a act of barefaced robbery , but it be in vain to speak , for the dog say he have find forge letter on the sausage , on which account its life be forfeit to he . the bird sadly take up the wood , fly home , and relate what he have see and hear . they be much trouble , but agree to do they best and remain together . the bird therefore lay the cloth , and the mouse make ready the food , and want to dress it , and to get into the pot as the sausage use to do , and roll and creep amongst the vegetable to mix they ; but before she get into the midst of they she be stop , and lose she skin and hair and life in the attempt . when the bird come to carry up the dinner , no cook be there . in its distress the bird throw the wood here and there , call and search , but no cook be to be find ! owe to he carelessness the wood catch fire , so that a conflagration ensue , the bird hasten to fetch water , and then the bucket drop from he claw into the well , and he fall down with it , and could not recover himself , but have to drown there .