127 the Iron Stove BrothersS Grimm in the day when wish be still of some use , a King 's son be bewitch by a old witch , and shut up in a iron stove in a forest . there he pass many year , and no one could deliver he . then a King 's daughter come into the forest , who have lose herself , and could not find she father 's kingdom again . after she have wander about for nine day , she at length come to the iron stove . then a voice come forth from it , and ask she , `` whence comest thou , and whither goest , thou ? '' she answer , `` I have lose my father 's kingdom , and can not get home again . '' then a voice inside the iron stove say , `` I will help thee to get home again , and that indeed most swiftly , if thou wilt promise to do what I desire of thee . I be the son of a far greater king than thy father , and I will marry thee . '' then be she afraid , and think , `` good heaven ! what can I do with a iron stove ? '' but as she much wish to get home to she father , she promise to do as he desire . but he say , `` Thou shalt return here , and bring a knife with thee , and scrape a hole in the iron . '' then he give she a companion who walk near she , but do not speak , but in two hour he take she home ; there be great joy in the castle when the King 's daughter come home , and the old King fall on she neck and kiss she . she , however , be sorely trouble , and say , `` dear father , what I have suffer ! I should never have get home again from the great wild forest , if I have not come to a iron stove , but I have be force to give my word that I will go back to it , set it free , and marry it . '' then the old king be so terrify that he all but faint , for he have but this one daughter . they therefore resolve they would send , in she place , the miller 's daughter , who be very beautiful . they take she there , give she a knife , and say she be to scrape at the iron stove . so she scrape at it for four-and-twenty hour , but could not bring off the least morsel of it . when day dawn , a voice in the stove say , `` it seem to I it be day outside . '' then she answer , `` it seem so to I too ; I fancy I hear the noise of my father 's mill . '' `` so thou art a miller 's daughter ! then go thy way at once , and let the King 's daughter come here . '' then she go away at once , and tell the old king that the man outside there , would have none of she he want the King 's daughter . they , however , still have a swine-herd 's daughter , who be even prettier than the miller 's daughter , and they determine to give she a piece of gold to go to the iron stove instead of the King 's daughter . so she be take thither , and she also have to scrape for four-and-twenty hour . she , however , make nothing of it . when day break , a voice inside the stove cried , `` it seem to I it be day outside ! '' then answer she , `` so it seem to I also ; I fancy I hear my father 's horn blowing . '' `` then thou art a swine-herd 's daughter ! go away at once , and tell the King 's daughter to come , and tell she all must be do as promise , and if she do not come , everything in the kingdom shall be ruin and destroy , and not one stone be leave standing on another . '' when the King 's daughter hear that she begin to weep , but now there be nothing for it but to keep she promise . so she take leave of she father , put a knife in she pocket , and go forth to the iron stove in the forest . when she get there , she begin to scrape , and the iron give way , and when two hour be over , she have already scrape a small hole . then she peep in , and see a youth so handsome , and so brilliant with gold and with precious jewel , that she very soul be delighted . now , therefore , she go on scraping , and make the hole so large that he be able to get out . then say he , `` Thou art mine , and I be thine ; thou art my bride , and hast release I . '' he want to take she away with he to he kingdom , but she entreat he to let she go once again to she father , and the King 's son allow she to do so , but she be not to say more to she father than three word , and then she be to come back again . so she go home , but she speak more than three word , and instantly the iron stove disappear , and be take far away over glass mountain and pierce sword ; but the King 's son be set free , and no longer shut up in it . after this she bid good-bye to she father , take some money with she , but not much , and go back to the great forest , and look for the iron stove , but it be nowhere to be find . for nine day she seek it , and then she hunger grow so great that she do not know what to do , for she could no longer live . when it be evening , she seat herself in a small tree , and make up she mind to spend the night there , as she be afraid of wild beast . when midnight draw near she see in the distance a small light , and think , `` ah , there I should be save ! '' she get down from the tree , and go towards the light , but on the way she pray . then she come to a little old house , and much grass have grow all about it , and a small heap of wood lay in front of it . she think , `` ah , whither have I come , '' and peep in through the window , but she see nothing inside but toad , big and little , except a table well cover with wine and roast meat , and the plate and glass be of silver . then she take courage , and knock at the door . the fat toad cry , `` little green waiting-maid , waiting-maid with the limp leg , little dog of the limp leg , Hop hither and thither , and quickly see who be without : '' and a small toad come walk by and open the door to she . when she enter , they all bid she welcome , and she be force to sit down . they ask , `` where hast thou come from , and whither art thou go ? '' then she relate all that have befall she , and how because she have transgress the order which have be give she not to say more than three word , the stove , and the King 's son also , have disappear , and now she be about to seek he over hill and dale until she find he . then the old fat one say , `` little green waiting-maid , waiting-maid with the limp leg , little dog of the limp leg , Hop hither and thither , and bring I the great box . '' then the little one go and bring the box . after this they give she meat and drink , and take she to a well-made bed , which feel like silk and velvet , and she lay herself therein , in God 's name , and sleep . when morning come she arise , and the old toad give she three needle out of the great box which she be to take with she ; they would be need by she , for she have to cross a high glass mountain , and go over three pierce sword and a great lake . if she do all this she would get she lover back again . then she give she three thing , which she be to take the greatest care of , namely , three large needle , a plough-wheel , and three nut . with these she travel onward , and when she come to the glass mountain which be so slippery , she stick the three needle first behind she foot and then before they , and so get over it , and when she be over it , she hide they in a place which she mark carefully . after this she come to the three pierce sword , and then she seat herself on she plough-wheel , and roll over they . at last she arrive in front of a great lake , and when she have cross it , she come to a large and beautiful castle . she go and ask for a place ; she be a poor girl , she say , and would like to be hire . she know , however , that the King 's son whom she have release from the iron stove in the great forest be in the castle . then she be take as a scullery-maid at low wages . but , already the King 's son have another maiden by he side whom he want to marry , for he think that she have long be dead . in the evening , when she have wash up and be do , she feel in she pocket and find the three nut which the old toad have give she . she crack one with she tooth , and be go to eat the kernel when lo and behold there be a stately royal garment in it ! but when the bride hear of this she come and ask for the dress , and want to buy it , and say , `` it be not a dress for a servant-girl . '' but she say no , she would not sell it , but if the bride would grant she one thing she should have it , and that be , leave to sleep one night in she bridegroom 's chamber . the bride give she permission because the dress be so pretty , and she have never have one like it . when it be evening she say to she bridegroom , `` that silly girl will sleep in thy room . '' `` if thou art willing so be I , '' say he . she , however , give he a glass of wine in which she have pour a sleeping-draught . so the bridegroom and the scullery-maid go to sleep in the room , and he sleep so soundly that she could not waken he . she weep the whole night and cry , `` I set thee free when thou wert in a iron stove in the wild forest , I seek thee , and walk over a glass mountain , and three sharp sword , and a great lake before I find thee , and yet thou wilt not hear I ! '' the servant sit by the chamber-door , and hear how she thus weep the whole night through , and in the morning they tell it to they lord . and the next evening when she have wash up , she open the second nut , and a far more beautiful dress be within it , and when the bride beheld it , she wish to buy that also . but the girl would not take money , and beg that she might once again sleep in the bridegroom 's chamber . the bride , however , give he a sleeping-drink , and he sleep so soundly that he could hear nothing . but the scullery-maid weep the whole night long , and cry , `` I set thee free when thou wert in a iron stove in the wild forest , I seek thee , and walk over a glass mountain , and over three sharp sword and a great lake before I find thee , and yet thou wilt not hear I ! '' the servant sit by the chamber-door and hear she weep the whole night through , and in the morning inform they lord of it . and on the third evening , when she have wash up , she open the third nut , and within it be a still more beautiful dress which be stiff with pure gold . when the bride see that she want to have it , but the maiden only give it up on condition that she might for the third time sleep in the bridegroom 's apartment . the King 's son be , however , on he guard , and throw the sleeping-draught away . now , therefore , when she begin to weep and to cry , `` dearest love , I set thee free when thou wert in the iron stove in the terrible wild forest , '' the King 's son leap up and say , `` Thou art the true one , thou art mine , and I be thine . '' Thereupon , while it be still night , he get into a carriage with she , and they take away the false bride 's clothes so that she could not get up . when they come to the great lake , they sail across it , and when they reach the three sharp-cutting sword they seat themselves on the plough-wheel , and when they get to the glass mountain they thrust the three needle in it , and so at length they get to the little old house ; but when they go inside that , it be a great castle , and the toad be all disenchant , and be King 's child , and full of happiness . then the wedding be celebrate , and the King 's son and the princess remain in the castle , which be much larger than the castle of they father . as , however , the old King grieve at be leave alone , they fetch he away , and bring he to live with they , and they have two kingdom , and live in happy wedlock . a mouse do run , this story be do .