40 the Robber Bridegroom BrothersS Grimm by BrothersS Grimm there be once on a time a miller , who have a beautiful daughter , and as she be grow up , he wish that she be provide for , and well marry . he think , `` if any good suitor come and ask for she , I will give she to he . '' not long afterwards , a suitor come , who appear to be very rich , and as the miller have no fault to find with he , he promise he daughter to he . the maiden , however , do not like he quite so much as a girl should like the man to whom she be engage , and have no confidence in he . Whenever she see , or thought of he , she feel a secret horror . once he say to she , `` Thou art my betrothed , and yet thou hast never once pay I a visit . '' the maiden reply , `` I know not where thy house be . '' then say the bridegroom , `` my house be out there in the dark forest . '' she try to excuse herself and say she could not find the way there . the bridegroom say , `` next Sunday thou must come out there to I ; I have already invite the guest , and I will strew ash in order that thou mayst find thy way through the forest . '' when Sunday come , and the maiden have to set out on she way , she become very uneasy , she herself know not exactly why , and to mark she way she fill both she pocket full of pea and lentil . ash be strew at the entrance of the forest , and these she follow , but at every step she throw a couple of pea on the ground . she walk almost the whole day until she reach the middle of the forest , where it be the darkest , and there stand a solitary house , which she do not like , for it look so dark and dismal . she go inside it , but no one be within , and the most absolute stillness reign . suddenly a voice cry , `` turn back , turn back , young maiden dear , ` ti a murderer 's house you enter here . '' the maiden look up , and see that the voice come from a bird , which be hang in a cage on the wall . again it cry , `` turn back , turn back , young maiden dear , ` ti a murderer 's house you enter here . '' then the young maiden go on farther from one room to another , and walk through the whole house , but it be entirely empty and not one human being be to be find . at last she come to the the cellar , and there sit a extremely age woman , whose head shake constantly . `` can you not tell I , '' say the maiden , `` if my betrothed life here ? '' `` Alas , poor child , '' reply the old woman , `` whither hast thou come ? Thou art in a murderer 's den . Thou thinkest thou art a bride soon to be marry , but thou wilt keep thy wedding with death . look , I have be force to put a great kettle on there , with water in it , and when they have thee in they power , they will cut thee to piece without mercy , will cook thee , and eat thee , for they be eater of human flesh . if I do not have compassion on thee , and save thee , thou art lose . '' Thereupon the old woman lead she behind a great hogshead where she could not be see . `` be as still as a mouse , '' say she , `` do not make a sound , or move , or all will be over with thee . at night , when the robber be asleep , we will escape ; I have long wait for a opportunity . '' hardly be this do , than the godless crew come home . they drag with they another young girl . they be drunk , and pay no heed to she scream and lamentation . they give she wine to drink , three glass full , one glass of white wine , one glass of red , and a glass of yellow , and with this she heart burst in twain . Thereupon they tear off she delicate raiment , lay she on a table , cut she beautiful body in piece and strew salt thereon . the poor bride behind the cask tremble and shake , for she see right well what fate the robber have destine for she . one of they notice a gold ring on the little finger of the murder girl , and as it would not come off at once , he take a axe and cut the finger off , but it spring up in the air , away over the cask and fall straight into the bride 's bosom . the robber take a candle and want to look for it , but could not find it . then another of they say , `` Hast thou look behind the great hogshead ? '' but the old woman cry , `` come and get something to eat , and leave off look till the morning , the finger will not run away from you . '' then the robber say , `` the old woman be right , '' and give up they search , and sit down to eat , and the old woman pour a sleeping-draught in they wine , so that they soon lay down in the cellar , and sleep and snore . when the bride hear that , she come out from behind the hogshead , and have to step over the sleeper , for they lay in row on the ground , and great be she terror lest she should waken one of they . but God help she , and she get safely over . the old woman go up with she , open the door , and they hurry out of the murderer ' den with all the speed in they power . the wind have blow away the strew ash , but the pea and lentil have sprout and grow up , and show they the way in the moonlight . they walk the whole night , until in the morning they arrive at the mill , and then the maiden tell she father everything exactly as it have happen . when the day come when the wedding be to be celebrate , the bridegroom appear , and the Miller have invite all he relation and friend . as they sit at table , each be bid to relate something . the bride sit still , and say nothing . then say the bridegroom to the bride , `` come , my darling , dost thou know nothing ? relate something to we like the rest . '' she reply , `` then I will relate a dream . I be walk alone through a wood , and at last I come to a house , in which no living soul be , but on the wall there be a bird in a cage which cry , `` turn back , turn back , young maiden dear , ` ti a murderer 's house you enter here . '' and this it cry once more . ` my darling , I only dream this . then I go through all the room , and they be all empty , and there be something so horrible about they ! at last I go down into the cellar , and there sit a very very old woman , whose head shake ; I ask she , ` do my bridegroom live in this house ? she answer , ` Alas poor child , thou hast get into a murderer 's den , thy bridegroom do live here , but he will hew thee in piece , and kill thee , and then he will cook thee , and eat thee . ' my darling , I only dream this . but the old woman hide I behind a great hogshead , and , scarcely be I hide , when the robber come home , drag a maiden with they , to whom they give three kind of wine to drink , white , red , and yellow , with which she heart break in twain . my darling , I only dream this . Thereupon they pull off she pretty clothes , and hew she fair body in piece on a table , and sprinkle they with salt . my darling , I only dream this . and one of the robber see that there be still a ring on she little finger , and as it be hard to draw off , he take a axe and cut it off , but the finger spring up in the air , and spring behind the great hogshead , and fall in my bosom . and there be the finger with the ring ! '' and with these word she draw it forth , and show it to those present . the robber , who have during this story become as pale as ash , leap up and want to escape , but the guest hold he fast , and deliver he over to justice . then he and he whole troop be execute for they infamous deed .