the SICK ABBESS La Fontain EXAMPLE often prove of sov ` reign use ; at other time it cherish abuse ; ` Tis not my purpose , howsoe'er , to tell which of the two I fancy to excel . some will conceive the Abbess act right , while other think she conduct very light be that as ` twill , she action right or wrong , I 'll freely give a license to my tongue , or pen , at all event , and clearly show , by what some nun be lead to undergo , that flock be equally of flesh and blood , and , if one pass , hundred stem the flood , to follow up the course the first have run , and imitate what t ` other have begin . when Agnes pass , another sister come , and ev ` ry nun desire to do the same ; at length the guardian of the flock appear , and likewise pass , though much at first she fear . the tale be this , we purpose to relate ; and full particulars we now will state . a Abbess once a certain illness have , Chlorosis name , which oft prove very bad , DestroysS the rose that decorate the cheek , and render female languid , pale , and weak . we lady 's face be like a saint 's in Lent : quite wan , though otherwise it mark content . the faculty , consult on she case , and who the dire disorder 's source would trace , at length pronounce slow fever must succeed , and death inevitably be decree , unless ; -- but this unless be very strange unless indeed she some way could arrange ; to gratify she wish , which seem to vex , and converse be allow with t ` other sex : hippocrate , howe'er , more plainly speak , no circumlocutory phrase he seek . O JESUS ! quite abashed the Abbess cry ; what be it ? -- fy ! -- a man would you provide ? yes , they rejoin , ` tis clearly what you want , and you will die without a brisk gallant ; one truly able will alone suffice ; and , if not such , take two we would advise . this still be worse , though , if we rightly guess , 'twa by she wish , dare she the truth confess . but how the sisterhood would see she take such remedy and no objection make ? shame often cause injury and pain ; and ill conceal bring other in they train . say sister Agnes , Madam , take they word ; a remedy like this would be absurd , if , like old death , it have a haggard look , and you design to get by hook or crook . a hundred secret you retain at ease ; can one so greatly shock and you displease ? -- you talk at random , Agnes , she reply ; now , would you for the remedy decide , upon you word , if you be in my place ? -- Yes , madam , say the nun , and think it grace ; still more I would do , if necessary thought ; you health , by I , would ev ` ry way be seek , and , if require by you to suffer this , not one around would less appear remiss ; Sincere affection for you I have show , and my regard I 'll ever proudly own . a thousand thanks the Abbess give she friend ; the doctor say : -- no use for they to send ; throughout the convent sad distress appear ; when Agnes , who to sage advice adhere , and be not think the weakest head around , a kinder soul perhaps could not be find , Said to the sisterhood , -- what now retain we worthy Abbess , and she will enchain , be nothing but the shame of pow ` r divine , or else , to what be prescribe she would resign . through charity will no one take the lead , and , by example , get she to proceed ? the counsel be by ev ` ry one approve , and commendation through the circle move . in this design not one , nor grave , nor old , nor young , nor prioress , at all seem cold ; Notes fly around , and friend of worth and taste , the black , the fair , the brown , appear in haste ; the number be not small , we record say , not -lrb-B- what might be -rrb-B- appearance of delay , but all most anxious seem the road to show , and what the AbbessS fear , at once to know ; none more sincerely ` mong the nun desire , that shame should not prevent what be require . nor that the Abbess should , within she soul , retain what might injuriously control . no sooner one among the flock have make the step , of which the Abbess be afraid , but other sister follow in the train : -- not one behind consent to remain ; each forward press , in dread to be the last ; at length , from prejudice the AbbessS pass ; to such example she at last give way , and , to a youth , no longer offer nay . the operation o ` er , she lily face resume the rose , and ev ` ry other grace . o remedy divine , prescription bless ! thy friendly aid to number stand confess ; the friend of thousand , friend of nature too ; the friend of all , except where honor 's due . this point of honor be another ill , in which the faculty confess no skill . what ill in life ! what mi ` rie dire around , while remedy so easy may be find !