87 the Poor Man and the Rich Man BrothersS Grimm in olden time , when the Lord himself still use to walk about on this earth amongst man , it once happen that he be tire and overtake by the darkness before he could reach a inn . now there stand on the road before he two house face each other ; the one large and beautiful , the other small and poor . the large one belong to a rich man , and the small one to a poor man . then the Lord thought , `` I shall be no burden to the rich man , I will stay the night with he . '' when the rich man hear some one knock at he door , he open the window and ask the stranger what he want . the Lord answer , `` I only ask for a night 's lodging . '' then the rich man look at the traveler from head to foot , and as the Lord be wear common clothes , and do not look like one who have much money in he pocket , he shake he head , and say , `` no , I can not take you in , my room be full of herb and seed ; and if I be to lodge everyone who knock at my door , I might very soon go beg myself . go somewhere else for a lodging , '' and with this he shut down the window and leave the Lord standing there . so the Lord turn he back on the rich man , and go across to the small house and knock . he have hardly do so when the poor man open the little door and bid the traveler come in . `` pass the night with I , it be already dark , '' say he ; `` you can not go any further to-night . '' this please the Lord , and he go in . the poor man 's wife shake hand with he , and welcome he , and say he be to make himself at home and put up with what they have get ; they have not much to offer he , but what they have they would give he with all they heart . then she put the potato on the fire , and while they be boil , she milk the goat , that they might have a little milk with they . when the cloth be lay , the Lord sit down with the man and he wife , and he enjoy they coarse food , for there be happy face at the table . when they have have supper and it be bed-time , the woman call she husband apart and say , `` Hark you , dear husband , let we make up a bed of straw for ourselves to-night , and then the poor traveler can sleep in we bed and have a good rest , for he have be walk the whole day through , and that make one weary . '' `` with all my heart , '' he answer , `` I will go and offer it to he ; '' and he go to the stranger and invite he , if he have no objection , to sleep in they bed and rest he limb properly . but the Lord be unwilling to take they bed from the two old folk ; however , they would not be satisfy , until at length he do it and lay down in they bed , while they themselves lay on some straw on the ground . next morning they get up before daybreak , and make as good a breakfast as they could for the guest . when the sun shone in through the little window , and the Lord have get up , he again eat with they , and then prepare to set out on he journey . but as he be stand at the door he turn round and say , `` as you be so kind and good , you may wish three thing for yourselve and I will grant they . '' then the man say , `` what else should I wish for but eternal happiness , and that we two , as long as we live , may be healthy and have every day we daily bread ; for the third wish , I do not know what to have . '' and the Lord say to he , `` will you wish for a new house instead of this old one ? '' `` oh , yes , '' say the man ; `` if I can have that , too , I should like it very much . '' and the Lord fulfil he wish , and change they old house into a new one , again give they he blessing , and go on . the sun be high when the rich man get up and lean out of he window and saw , on the opposite side of the way , a new clean-looking house with red tile and bright window where the old hut use to be . he be very much astonished , and call he wife and say to she , `` tell I , what can have happen ? last night there be a miserable little hut standing there , and to-day there be a beautiful new house . Run over and see how that have come to pass . '' so he wife go and ask the poor man , and he say to she , `` yesterday evening a traveler come here and ask for a night 's lodging , and this morning when he take leave of we he grant we three wish -- eternal happiness , health during this life and we daily bread as well , and besides this , a beautiful new house instead of we old hut . '' when the rich man 's wife hear this , she run back in haste and tell she husband how it have happen . the man say , `` I could tear myself to piece ! if I have but know that ! that traveler come to we house too , and want to sleep here , and I send he away . '' `` quick ! '' say he wife , `` get on you horse . you can still catch the man up , and then you must ask to have three wish grant to you . '' the rich man follow the good counsel and gallop away on he horse , and soon come up with the Lord . he speak to he softly and pleasantly , and beg he not to take it amiss that he have not let he in directly ; he be look for the front-door key , and in the meantime the stranger have go away , if he return the same way he must come and stay with he . `` yes , '' say the Lord ; `` if I ever come back again , I will do so . '' then the rich man ask if might not wish for three thing too , as he neighbor have do ? `` yes , '' say the Lord , he might , but it would not be to he advantage , and he have better not wish for anything ; but the rich man think that he could easily ask for something which would add to he happiness , if he only know that it would be grant . so the Lord say to he , `` ride home , then , and three wish which you shall form , shall be fulfil . '' the rich man have now gain what he want , so he ride home , and begin to consider what he should wish for . as he be thus think he let the bridle fall , and the horse begin to caper about , so that he be continually disturb in he meditation , and could not collect he thought at all . he pat its neck , and say , `` gently , Lisa , '' but the horse only begin new trick . then at last he be angry , and cry quite impatiently , `` I wish you neck be break ! '' directly he have say the word , down the horse fall on the ground , and there it lay dead and never move again . and thus be he first wish fulfil . as he be miserly by nature , he do not like to leave the harness lie there ; so he cut it off , and put it on he back ; and now he have to go on foot . `` I have still two wish leave , '' say he , and comfort himself with that thought . and now as he be walk slowly through the sand , and the sun be burn hot at noon-day , he grow quite hot-tempered and angry . the saddle hurt he back , and he have not yet any idea what to wish for . `` if I be to wish for all the riches and treasure in the world , '' say he to himself , `` I should still to think of all kind of other thing later on , I know that , beforehand . but I will manage so that there be nothing at all leave I to wish for afterwards . '' then he sigh and say , `` ah , if I be but that bavarian peasant , who likewise have three wish grant to he , and know quite well what to do , and in the first place wish for a great deal of beer , and in the second for as much beer as he be able to drink , and in the third for a barrel of beer into the bargain . '' many a time he think he have find it , but then it seem to he to be , after all , too little . then it come into he mind , what a easy life he wife have , for she stay at home in a cool room and enjoy herself . this really do vex he , and before he be aware , he say , `` I just wish she be sit there on this saddle , and could not get off it , instead of my have to drag it along on my back . '' and as the last word be speak , the saddle disappear from he back , and he see that he second wish have be fulfil . then he really do feel warm . he begin to run and want to be quite alone in he own room at home , to think of something really large for he last wish . but when he arrive there and open the parlour-door , he see he wife sit in the middle of the room on the saddle , cry and complain , and quite unable to get off it . so he say , `` do bear it , and I will wish for all the riches on earth for thee , only stay where thou art . '' she , however , call he a fool , and say , `` what good will all the riches on earth do I , if I be to sit on this saddle ? Thou hast wish I on it , so thou must help I off . '' so whether he would or not , he be force to let he third wish be that she should be quit of the saddle , and able to get off it , and immediately the wish be fulfil . so he get nothing by it but vexation , trouble , abuse , and the loss of he horse ; but the poor people live happily , quietly , and piously until they happy death .