the Tailor in Heaven BrothersS Grimm by BrothersS Grimm one very fine day it come to pass that the good God wish to enjoy himself in the heavenly garden , and take all the apostle and saint with he , so that no one stay in heaven but Saint Peter . the Lord have command he to let no one in during he absence , so Peter stand by the door and keep watch . before long some one knock . Peter ask who be there , and what he want ? `` I be a poor , honest tailor who pray for admission , '' reply a smooth voice . `` honest indeed , '' say Peter , `` like the thief on the gallows ! Thou hast be light-fingered and hast snipped folk ' clothes away . Thou wilt not get into heaven . the Lord hath forbid I to let any one in while he be out . '' `` come , do be merciful , '' cry the tailor . `` little scrap which fall off the table of they own accord be not steal , and be not worth speak about . look , I be lame , and have blister on my foot with walking here , I can not possibly turn back again . only let I in , and I will do all the rough work . I will carry the child , and wash they clothes , and wash and clean the bench on which they have be play , and patch all they torn clothes . '' Saint Peter let himself be move by pity , and open the door of heaven just wide enough for the lame tailor to slip he lean body in . he be force to sit down in a corner behind the door , and be to stay quietly and peaceably there , in order that the Lord , when he return , might not observe he and be angry . the tailor obey , but once when Saint Peter go outside the door , he get up , and full of curiosity , go round about into every corner of heaven , and inspect the arrangement of every place . at length he come to a spot where many beautiful and delightful chair be stand , and in the midst be a seat all of gold which be set with shine jewel , likewise it be much higher than the other chair , and a footstool of gold be before it . it be , however , the seat on which the Lord sit when he be at home , and from which he could see everything which happen on earth . the tailor stand still , and look at the seat for a long time , for it please he better than all else . at last he could master he curiosity no longer , and climb up and seat himself in the chair . then he see everything which be happen on earth , and observe a ugly old woman who be stand wash by the side of a stream , secretly lay two veil on one side for herself . the sight of this make the tailor so angry that he lay hold of the golden footstool , and throw it down to earth through heaven , at the old thief . as , however , he could not bring the stool back again , he slip quietly out of the chair , seat himself in he place behind the door , and behave as if he have never stir from the spot . when the Lord and master come back again with he heavenly companion , he do not see the tailor behind the door , but when he seat himself on he chair the footstool be miss . he ask Saint Peter what have become of the stool , but he do not know . then he ask if he have let anyone come in . `` I know of no one who have be here , '' answer Peter , `` but a lame tailor , who be still sit behind the door . '' then the Lord have the tailor bring before he , and ask he if he have take away the stool , and where he have put it ? `` oh , Lord , '' answer the tailor joyously , `` I throw it in my anger down to earth at a old woman whom I see steal two veil at the wash . '' `` oh , thou knave , '' say the Lord , `` be I to judge as thou judgest , how dost thou think thou couldst have escape so long ? I should long ago have have no chair , bench , seat , nay , not even a oven-fork , but should have throw everything down at the sinner . Henceforth thou canst stay no longer in heaven , but must go outside the door again . then go where thou wilt . no one shall give punishment here , but I alone , the Lord . '' Peter be oblige to take the tailor out of heaven again , and as he have tear shoe , and foot cover with blister , he take a stick in he hand , and go to `` wait-a-bit , '' where the good soldier sit and make merry .