the FIFTH VOYAGE of SINBAD the SAILOR . Arabian Writer the pleasure I enjoy again have charm enough to make I forget all the trouble and calamity I have undergo , without cure I of my inclination to make new voyage . therefore I buy goods , order they to be pack up and load , and set out with they for the best seaport ; and there , that I might not be oblige to depend upon a captain , but have a ship at my own command , I wait till one be build on purpose at my own expense . when the ship be ready , I go on board with my goods ; but not have enough to load she , I take on board with I several merchant of different nation , with they merchandise . we sail with the first fair wind , and after a long voyage , the first place we touch at be a desert island , where we find a egg of a roc , equal in size to that I formerly mention . there be a young roc in it just ready to be hatch , and the bill of it begin to appear . the merchant whom I have take on board my ship , and who land with I , break the egg with hatchet , and make a hole in it , from whence they pull out the young roc piece by piece , and roasted it . I have earnestly persuade they not to meddle with the egg , but they would not listen to I . scarcely have they make a end of they feast , when there appear in the air , at a considerable distance from we , two great cloud . the captain whom I hire to manage my ship , know by experience what it mean , cry that it be the cock and hen roc that belong to the young one , and press we to re-embark with all speed , to prevent the misfortune which he see would otherwise befall we . we make haste to do so , and set sail with all possible diligence . in the meantime the two roc approach with a frightful noise , which they redouble when they see the egg break , and they young one go . but have a mind to avenge themselves , they fly back towards the place from whence they come , and disappear for some time , while we make all the sail we could to prevent that which unhappily befall we . they return , and we observe that each of they carry between they talon stone , or rather rock , of a monstrous size . when they come directly over my ship , they hover , and one of they let fall a stone ; but by the dexterity of the steersman , who turn the ship with the rudder , it miss we , and fall by the side of the ship into the sea , divide the water so that we could see almost to the bottom . the other roc , to we misfortune , throw the stone so exactly upon the middle of the ship that it split into a thousand piece . the mariner and passenger be all kill by the stone , or sink . I myself have the last fate ; but as I come up again I fortunately catch hold of a piece of the wreck , and swimming sometimes with one hand and sometimes with the other , but always hold fast to my board , the wind and the tide favor I , I come to a island , where the beach be very steep . I overcome that difficulty however , and get ashore . I sit down upon the grass , to recover myself a little from my fatigue , after which I get up , and go into the island to view it . it seem to be a delicious garden . I find tree everywhere , some of they bear green and other ripe fruit , and stream of fresh pure water , with pleasant winding and turning . I eat of the fruit , which I find excellent , and drank of the water , which be very pleasant . Night be come , I lay down upon the grass in a convenient place enough , but I could not sleep for a hour at a time , my mind be so disturbed with the fear of be alone in so desert a place . thus I spend the best part of the night in fret , and reproach myself for my imprudence in not stay at home , rather than undertake this last voyage . these reflection carry I so far , that I begin to form a design against my own life , but daylight disperse these melancholy thought , and I get up , and walk among the tree , but not without apprehension of danger . when I be a little advanced into the island , I see a old man who appear very weak and feeble . he sit upon the bank of a stream , and at first I take he to be one who have be shipwreck like myself . I go towards he and salute he , but he only bow he head a little . I ask he what he do there , but instead of answer he make a sign for I to take he upon my back and carry he over the brook , signify that it be to gather fruit . I believe he really to stand in need of my help , so take he upon my back , and have carry he over , bid he get down , and for that end stoop that he might get off with ease : but instead of that -lrb-B- which I laugh at every time I think of it -rrb-B- , the old man , who to I have appear very decrepit , clasp he leg nimbly about my neck , and then I perceive he skin to resemble that of a cow . he sit astride upon my shoulder , and hold my throat so tight that I think he would have strangle I , the fright of which make I faint away and fall down . notwithstanding my fainting , the ill-natured old fellow keep fast about my neck , but open he leg a little to give I time to recover my breath . when I have do so , he thrust one of he foot against my stomach , and strike I so rudely on the side with the other , that he force I to rise up against my will . have get up , he make I walk under the tree , and force I now and then to stop , to gather and eat fruit such as we find . he never leave I all day , and when I lay down to rest by night , he lay himself down with I , always hold fast about my neck . every morning he push I to make I wake , and afterwards oblige I to get up and walk , and press I with he foot . you may judge then what trouble I be in , to be load with such a burden as I could by no means rid myself of . one day I find in my way several dry calabash that have fall from a tree ; I take a large one , and , after clean it , press into it some juice of grape , which abound in the island . have fill the calabash , I set it in a convenient place ; and come hither again some day after , I take up my calabash , and set it to my mouth find the wine to be so good that it presently make I not only forget my sorrow , but grow vigorous , and so light-hearted that I begin to sing and dance as I walk along . the old man , perceive the effect which this drink have upon I , and that I carry he with more ease than I do before , make a sign for I to give he some of it . I give he the calabash , and the liquor please he palate , he drink it all off . he become drunk immediately , and the fume get up into he head he begin to sing after he manner , and to dance upon my shoulder . he jolt about make he sick , and he loosen he leg from about I by degree ; so find that he do not press I as before , I throw he upon the ground , where he lay without motion , and then I take up a great stone , with which I crush he head to piece . I be extremely rejoice to be free thus for ever from this cursed old fellow , and walk along the shore of the sea , where I meet the crew of a ship that have cast anchor to take in water to refresh themselves . they be extremely surprised to see I , and to hear the particulars of my adventure . ` you fall , ' say they , ` into the hand of the old man of the sea , and be the first that have ever escape strangling by he . he never leave those he have once make himself master of till he destroy they , and he have make this island famous for the number of man he have slay ; so that the merchant and mariner who land upon it dare not advance into the island but in number together . ' after have inform I of these thing they carry I with they to the ship ; the captain receive I with great satisfaction when they tell he what have befall I . he put out again to sea , and after some day ' sail we arrive at the harbor of a great city , where the house be build of good stone . one of the merchant of the ship , who have take I into he friendship , ask I to go along with he , and take I to a place appoint as a retreat for foreign merchant . he give I a great bag , and have recommend I to some people of the town , who be use to gather cocoa-nuts , he desire they to take I with they to do the like : ` go , ' say he , ` follow they , and do as you see they do , and do not separate from they , otherwise you endanger you life . ' have thus speak , he give I provision for the journey , and I go with they . we come to a great forest of tree , extremely straight and tall , they trunk so smooth that it be not possible for any man to climb up to the branch that bear the fruit . all the tree be cocoa-nut tree , and when we enter the forest we see a great number of ape of all size , that flee as soon as they perceive we , and climb up to the top of the tree with surprising swiftness . the merchant with whom I be gather stone , and throw they at the ape on the top of the tree . I do the same , and the ape , out of revenge , throw cocoa-nuts at we as fast and with such gesture as sufficiently testify they anger and resentment : we gather up the cocoa-nuts , and from time to time throw stone to provoke the ape ; so that by this stratagem we fill we bag with cocoa - nut , which it have be impossible for we to do otherwise . when we have gather we number , we return to the city , where the merchant who send I to the forest give I the value of the cocoa - nut I have bring ; ` go on , ' say he , ` and do the like every day , until you have money enough to carry you home . ' I thank he for he good advice , and gather together as many cocoa-nuts as amount to a considerable sum . the vessel in which I come sail with merchant who load she with cocoa-nuts . I expect the arrival of another , whose merchant land speedily for the like load . I embark on board the same all the cocoa-nuts that belong to I , and when she be ready to sail I go and take leave of the merchant who have be so kind to I ; but he could not embark with I because he have not finish he business . we set sail towards the island where pepper grow in great plenty . from thence we go to the Isle of Comari , where the best sort of wood of aloe grow , and whose inhabitant have make it a inviolable law to drink no wine themselves , nor to suffer any kind of improper conduct . I exchange my cocoa-nuts in those two island for pepper and wood of aloe , and go with other merchant pearl - fishing . I hire diver , who fetch I up those that be very large and pure . then I embark joyfully in a vessel that happily arrive at Balsora ; from thence I return to Bagdad , where I make vast sum by my pepper , wood of aloe , and pearl . I give the tenth of my gain in alms , as I have do upon my return from other voyage , and endeavor to ease myself from my fatigue by diversion of all sort .