the COBBLER La Fontain WE 'RE tell , that once a cobbler , BLASE by name ; a wife have get , whose charm so high in fame ; but as it happen , that they cash be spend , the honest couple to a neighbor go , a corn-factor by trade , not overwise to whom they state fact without disguise ; and beg , with falt ` ring voice denote care , that he , of wheat , would half a measure spare , upon they note , which readily he give , and all advantage desire to wave . the time for payment come ; the money use ; the cash we factor would not be refuse ; of writ he talk , attorney , and distress ; the reason : -- heav ` n can tell , and you may guess ; in short , 'twa clear we gay gallant desire , to cheer the wife , whose beauty all admire . say he , what anxiously I wish to get , you have plenty store , and never want yet ; you surely know my meaning ? -- Yes , she cry ; I 'll turn it in my mind , and we 'll decide how best to act . away she quickly fly , and Blase inform , what Ninny have in view . zound ! say the cobbler , we must see , my dear , to hook this little sum : -- the way be clear ; no risk I be confident ; for prithee run and tell he I have a journey just begin ; that he may hither come and have he will ; but ` ere he touch thy lip , demand the bill ; he 'll not refuse the boon I be very sure ; meantime , myself I 'll hide and all secure . the note obtain , cough loudly , strong , and clear ; twice let it be , that I may plainly hear ; then forth I 'll sally from my lurk place , and , spite of folly 's frown , prevent disgrace . the plot succeed as the pair desire ; the cobbler laugh , and ALL he scheme admire : a purse-proud cit thereon observe and swear ; ` twere better to have cough when all be o ` er ; then you , all three , would have enjoy you wish , and be in future all as mute as fish . OH ! sir , reply the cobbler 's wife at ease , do you suppose that use can hope to please , and like you lady full of sense appear ? -lrb-B- for two be seat with he wed dear ; -rrb-B- perhaps my lady would act as you describe , but ev ` ry one such prudence do not imbibe .