the impossible thing La Fontain A DEMON , blacker in he skin than heart , so great a charm be prompt to impart ; to one in love , that he the lady gain , and full possession in the end obtain : the bargain be , the lover should enjoy the belle he wish , and who have prove so coy . Said Satan , soon I 'll make she lend a ear , in ev ` ry thing more complaisant appear ; but then , instead of what thou might ` st expect , to be obedient and let I direct , the devil , have thus oblige a friend , he 'll thy command obey , thou may ` st depend , the very moment ; and within the hour Thy humble servant , who have get such pow ` r , will ask for other , which at once thou ` lt find ; make no delay , for if thou art so blind , Thou comprehend ` st , thy body and thy soul the lovely fair no longer shall control , but Satan then upon they both shall seize , and with they do-whatever he may please : ` gainst this the spark have not a word to say ; 'Twas please to command , though not obey . he sally forth the beauteous belle to seek , and find she as he wish : -- complying-meek ; indulge in bliss , and most happy proved , Save that the devil always round he move . whatever rise within the whirl of thought he now command : -- quickly it be bring ; and when he order palace to rise , or rage tempest to pervade the sky , the devil instantly obey he will , and what he ask be do with wondrous skill . large sum he purse receive ; -- the devil go just where command , and to Rome be send , from whence he highness store of pardon get ; no journey long , though distant be the spot , but ev ` ry thing with magick ease arise , and all be soon accomplish that he choose . so oft the spark be ask for order new , which he be bind to give the fiend at view , that soon he head most thoroughly be drain , and to the fair we lover much complain , declare the truth , and ev ` ry thing detail , how he be lose , if in command he fail . be ` t this , say she , that make thee so forlorn ? mere nothing ! - quickly I 'll remove the thorn ; when Satan come , present he highness this , which I have here , and say : -- you will not miss to make it flat , and not its curl retain on which she give he , what with little pain she draw from covert of the cyprian grove , the fairy labyrinth where pleasure reeve , which formerly a duke so precious thought ; to raise a knightly order thence he seek , illustrious institution , noble plan , more fill with god and demi-gods than man . the lover to the crafty devil say : -- ` ti crooked this , you see , and I be lead to wish it otherwise ; go , make it straight ; a perfect line : no turn , nor twist , nor plait . away to work , be quick , fly , hasten , run ; the demon fancy it could soon be do ; no time he lose , but set it in the press , and try to manage it with great success ; the massy hammer , keep beneath the deep , make no impression : he as well might sleep ; Howe'er he beat : whatever charm he use : -- 'twa still the same ; obedience it refuse . he time and labor constantly be lose ; Vain prove each effort : mystick skill be cross ; the wind , or rain , or fog , or frost , or snow , have no effect : still circular ` twould go . the more he try , the ringlet less inclined to drop the curvature so closely twine . how 's this ? say Satan , never have I see such stubborn stuff wherever I have be ; the shades below no demon can produce , that could divine what here would prove of use : ` Twould puzzle hell to break the curling spring , and make a line direct of such a thing . one morn the devil to the other go : Said he , to give thee up I 'll be content ; if solely thou wilt openly declare what ` tis I hold , for truly I despair ; I be victus I confess , and can not succeed : no doubt the thing 's impossible decree . FRIEND Satan , say the lover , you be wrong ; Despondency should not to you belong , at least so soon : -- what you desire to know be not the only one that be find to grow ; still many more companion it have get , and other could be take from the spot .