the tale of MRS. TIGGY-WINKLE Beatrix Potter once upon a time there be a little girl call Lucie , who live at a farm call little-town . she be a good little girl -- only she be always lose she pocket - handkerchief ! one day little Lucie come into the farm-yard cry -- oh , she do cry so ! `` I have lose my pocket-handkin ! three handkin and a pinny ! Have you see they , Tabby Kitten ? '' the Kitten go on wash she white paw ; so lucie ask a speckled hen -- `` Sally Henny-penny , have you find three pocket-handkins ? '' but the speckled hen run into a barn , cluck -- `` I go barefoot , barefoot , barefoot ! '' and then Lucie ask Cock Robin sit on a twig . Cock Robin look sideways at Lucie with he bright black eye , and he fly over a stile and away . Lucie climb upon the stile and look up at the hill behind little-town -- a hill that go up -- up -- into the cloud as though it have no top ! and a great way up the hillside she think she see some white thing spread upon the grass . LUCIE scramble up the hill as fast as she stout leg would carry she ; she run along a steep path-way -- up and up -- until little-town be right away down below -- she could have drop a pebble down the chimney ! PRESENTLY she come to a spring , bubble out from the hill-side . some one have stand a tin can upon a stone to catch the water -- but the water be already run over , for the can be no bigger than a egg-cup ! and where the sand upon the path be wet -- there be foot-marks of a VERY small person . Lucie run on , and on . the path end under a big rock . the grass be short and green , and there be clothes-props cut from bracken stem , with line of plaited rush , and a heap of tiny clothes pin -- but no pocket-handkerchiefs ! but there be something else -- a door ! straight into the hill ; and inside it some one be sing -- `` lily-white and clean , oh ! with little frill between , oh ! smooth and hot -- red rusty spot never here be see , oh ! '' LUCIE , knock -- once -- twice , and interrupt the song . a little frightened voice call out `` who be that ? '' Lucie open the door : and what do you think there be inside the hill ? -- a nice clean kitchen with a flagged floor and wooden beam -- just like any other farm kitchen . only the ceiling be so low that Lucie 's head nearly touch it ; and the pot and pan be small , and so be everything there . THERE be a nice hot singey smell ; and at the table , with a iron in she hand stand a very stout short person stare anxiously at Lucie . she print gown be tuck up , and she be wear a large apron over she striped petticoat . she little black nose go sniffle , sniffle , snuffle , and she eye go twinkle , twinkle ; and underneath she cap -- where Lucie have yellow curl -- that little person have PRICKLES ! `` who be you ? '' say Lucie . `` have you see my pocket-handkins ? '' the little person make a bob-curtsey -- `` oh , yes , if you please be ; my name be Mrs. Tiggy-winkle ; oh , yes if you please be , I be a excellent clear - starcher ! '' and she take something out of a clothes - basket , and spread it on the ironing-blanket . `` what be that thing ? '' say Lucie -- `` that be not my pocket-handkin ? '' `` oh no , if you please be ; that be a little scarlet waist-coat belong to Cock Robin ! '' and she iron it and fold it , and put it on one side . then she take something else off a clothes-horse -- `` that be not my pinny ? '' say Lucie . `` oh no , if you please be ; that be a damask table-cloth belong to Jenny Wren ; look how it be stain with currant wine ! it be very bad to wash ! '' say Mrs. Tiggy - winkle .