121 the King 's Son who fear nothing Brothers Grimm there be once a King 's son , who be no longer content to stay at home in he father 's house , and as he have no fear of anything , he think , `` I will go forth into the wide world , there the time will not seem long to I , and I shall see wonder enough . '' so he take leave of he parent , and go forth , and on and on from morning till night , and whichever way he path lead it be the same to he . it come to pass that he get to the house of a giant , and as he be so tired he sit down by the door and rest . and as he let he eye roam here and there , he see the giant 's plaything lie in the yard . these be a couple of enormous ball , and nine-pins as tall as a man . after a while he have a fancy to set the nine-pins up and then roll the ball at they , and scream and cry out when the nine-pins fall , and have a merry time of it . the giant hear the noise , stretch he head out of the window , and see a man who be not taller than other man , and yet play with he nine-pins . `` little worm , '' cry he , `` why art thou play with my ball ? who give thee strength to do it ? '' the King 's son look up , see the giant , and say , `` oh , thou blockhead , thou thinkest indeed that thou only hast strong arm , I can do everything I want to do . '' the giant come down and watch the bowling with great admiration , and say , `` child of man , if thou art one of that kind , go and bring I a apple of the tree of life . '' `` what dost thou want with it ? '' say the King 's son . `` I do not want the apple for myself , '' answer the giant , `` but I have a betrothed bride who wish for it . I have travel far about the world and can not find the tree . '' `` I will soon find it , '' say the King 's son , `` and I do not know what be to prevent I from get the apple down . '' the giant say , `` Thou really believest it to be so easy ! the garden in which the tree stand be surround by a iron railing , and in front of the railing lie wild beast , each close to the other , and they keep watch and let no man go in . '' `` they will be sure to let I in , '' say the King 's son . `` yes , but even if thou dost get into the garden , and seest the apple hanging to the tree , it be still not thine ; a ring hang in front of it , through which any one who want to reach the apple and break it off , must put he hand , and no one have yet have the luck to do it . '' `` that luck will be mine , '' say the King 's son . then he take leave of the giant , and go forth over mountain and valley , and through plain and forest , until at length he come to the wondrous garden . the beast lay round about it , but they have put they head down and be asleep . moreover , they do not awake when he go up to they , so he step over they , climb the fence , and get safely into the garden . there , in the very middle of it , stand the tree of life , and the red apple be shine upon the branch . he climb up the trunk to the top , and as he be about to reach out for a apple , he see a ring hanging before it ; but he thrust he hand through that without any difficulty , and gather the apple . the ring close tightly on he arm , and all at once he feel a prodigious strength flow through he vein . when he have come down again from the tree with the apple , he would not climb over the fence , but grasp the great gate , and have no need to shake it more than once before it spring open with a loud crash . then he go out , and the lion which have be lie down before , be awake and spring after he , not in rage and fierceness , but follow he humbly as its master . the King 's son take the giant the apple he have promise he , and say , `` Seest thou , I have bring it without difficulty . '' the giant be glad that he desire have be so soon satisfied , hasten to he bride , and give she the apple for which she have wish . she be a beautiful and wise maiden , and as she do not see the ring on he arm , she say , `` I shall never believe that thou hast bring the apple , until I see the ring on thine arm . '' the giant say , `` I have nothing to do but go home and fetch it , '' and think it would be easy to take away by force from the weak man , what he would not give of he own free will . he therefore demand the ring from he , but the King 's son refuse it . `` where the apple be , the ring must be also , '' say the giant ; `` if thou wilt not give it of thine own accord , thou must fight with I for it . '' they wrestle with each other for a long time , but the giant could not get the better of the King 's son , who be strengthen by the magical power of the ring . then the giant thought of a stratagem , and say , `` I have get warm with fight , and so hast thou . we will bathe in the river , and cool ourselves before we begin again . '' the King 's son , who know nothing of falsehood , go with he to the water , and pull off with he clothes the ring also from he arm , and spring into the river . the giant instantly snatch the ring , and run away with it , but the lion , which have observe the theft , pursue the giant , tear the ring out of he hand , and bring it back to its master . then the giant place himself behind a oak-tree , and while the King 's son be busy put on he clothes again , surprise he , and put both he eye out . and now the unhappy King 's son stand there , and be blind and know not how to help himself . then the giant come back to he , take he by the hand as if he be someone who want to guide he , and lead he to the top of a high rock . there he leave he standing , and think , `` just two step more , and he will fall down and kill himself , and I can take the ring from he . '' but the faithful lion have not desert its master ; it hold he fast by the clothes , and draw he gradually back again . when the giant come and want to rob the dead man , he see that he cunning have be in vain . `` be there no way , then , of destroy a weak child of man like that ? '' say he angrily to himself , and seize the King 's son and lead he back again to the precipice by another way , but the lion which see he evil design , help its master out of danger here also . when they have get close to the edge , the giant let the blind man 's hand drop , and be go to leave he behind alone , but the lion push the giant so that he be throw down and fall , dash to piece , on the ground . the faithful animal again draw its master back from the precipice , and guide he to a tree by which flow a clear brook . the King 's son sit down there , but the lion lay down , and sprinkle the water in he face with its paw . scarcely have a couple of drop wet the socket of he eye , than he be once more able to see something , and remark a little bird fly quite close by , which wound itself against the trunk of a tree . on this it go down to the water and bath itself therein , and then it soar upward and sweep between the tree without touch they , as if it have recover its sight again . then the King 's son recognize a sign from God and stoop down to the water , and wash and bath he face in it . and when he arise he have he eye once more , brighter and clearer than they have ever be . the King 's son thank God for he great mercy , and travel with he lion onward through the world . and it come to pass that he arrive before a castle which be enchant . in the gateway stand a maiden of beautiful form and fine face , but she be quite black . she speak to he and say , `` ah , if thou couldst but deliver I from the evil spell which be throw over I . '' `` what shall I do ? '' say the King 's son . the maiden answer , `` Thou must pass three night in the great hall of this enchant castle , but thou must let no fear enter thy heart . when they be do they worst to torment thee , if thou bearest it without let a sound escape thee , I shall be free . thy life they dare not take . '' then say the King 's son , `` I have no fear ; with God 's help I will try it . '' so he go gaily into the castle , and when it grow dark he seat himself in the large hall and wait . everything be quiet , however , till midnight , when all at once a great tumult begin , and out of every hole and corner come little devil . they behave as if they do not see he , seat themselves in the middle of the room , light a fire , and begin to gamble . when one of they lose , he say , `` it be not right ; some one be here who do not belong to we ; it be he fault that I be lose . '' `` wait , you fellow behind the stove , I be come , '' say another . the scream become still louder , so that no one could have hear it without terror . the King 's son stay sit quite quietly , and be not afraid ; but at last the devil jump up from the ground , and fall on he , and there be so many of they that he could not defend himself from they . they drag he about on the floor , pinch he , prick he , beat he , and torment he , but no sound escape from he . towards morning they disappear , and he be so exhaust that he could scarcely move he limb , but when day dawn the black maiden come to he . she bear in she hand a little bottle wherein be the water of life wherewith she wash he , and he at once feel all pain depart and new strength flow through he vein . she say , `` Thou hast hold out successfully for one night , but two more lie before thee . '' then she go away again , and as she be go , he observe that she foot have become white . the next night the devil come and begin they gambol anew . they fall on the King 's son , and beat he much more severely than the night before , until he body be cover with wound . but as he bear all quietly , they be force to leave he , and when dawn appear , the maiden come and heal he with the water of life . and when she go away , he see with joy that she have already become white to the tip of she finger . and now he have only one night more to go through , but it be the worst . the hob-goblins come again : `` Art thou there still ? '' cry they , `` thou shalt be torment till thy breath stop . '' they prick he and beat he , and throw he here and there , and pull he by the arm and leg as if they want to tear he to piece , but he bear everything , and never utter a cry . at last the devil vanish , but he lay faint there , and do not stir , nor could he raise he eye to look at the maiden who come in , and sprinkle and bath he with the water of life . but suddenly he be free from all pain , and feel fresh and healthy as if he have awaken from sleep , and when he open he eye he see the maiden standing by he , snow-white , and fair as day . `` rise , '' say she , `` and swing thy sword three time over the stair , and then all will be deliver . '' and when he have do that , the whole castle be release from enchantment , and the maiden be a rich King 's daughter . the servant come and say that the table be already set in the great hall , and dinner serve up . then they sit down and eat and drink together , and in the evening the wedding be solemnize with great rejoicing .