the king of PERSIA and the princess of the sea . Arabian Writer there once be a king of Persia , who at the beginning of he reign have distinguish himself by many glorious and successful conquest , and have afterwards enjoy such profound peace and tranquillity as render he the happiest of monarch . he only occasion for regret be that he have no heir to succeed he in the kingdom after he death . one day , accord to the custom of he royal predecessor during they residence in the capital , he hold a assembly of he courtier , at which all the ambassador and stranger of renown at he court be present . among these there appear a merchant from a far-distant country , who send a message to the king craving a audience , as he wish to speak to he about a very important matter . the king give order for the merchant to be instantly admit ; and when the assembly be over , and all the rest of the company have retire , the king inquire what be the business which have bring he to the palace . ` Sire , ' reply the merchant , ` I have with I , and beg you majesty to behold , the most beautiful and charming slave it would be possible to find if you search every corner of the earth ; if you will but see she , you will surely wish to make she you wife . ' the fair slave be , by the king 's command , immediately bring in , and no sooner have the king behold a lady whose beauty and grace surpass anything he have ever imagine , than he fall passionately in love with she , and determine to marry she at once . this be do . so the king cause the fair slave to be lodge in the next finest apartment to he own , and give particular order to the matron and the women-slaves appoint to attend she , that they should dress she in the richest robe they could find , and carry she the finest pearl necklace , the brightest diamond , and other the richest precious stone , that she might choose those she like best . the King of Persia 's capital be situate in a island ; and he palace , which be very magnificent , be build upon the sea-shore ; he window look towards the sea ; and the fair slave 's , which be pretty near it , have also the same prospect , and it be the more pleasant on account of the sea 's beating almost against the foot of the wall . at the end of three day the fair slave , magnificently dress , be alone in she chamber , sit upon a sofa , and lean against one of the window that face the sea , when the king , be inform that he might visit she , come in . the slave hearing somebody walk in the room , immediately turn she head to see who it be . she know he to be the king ; but without show the least surprise , or so much as rise from she seat to salute or receive he , she turn back to the window again as if he have be the most insignificant person in the world . the King of Persia be extremely surprised to see a slave of so beauteous a form so very ignorant of the world . he attribute this to the narrowness of she education , and the little care that have be take to instruct she in the first rule of civility . he go to she at the window , where , notwithstanding the coldness and indifference with which she have just now receive he , she suffer herself to be admire , kiss and embrace as much as he please , but answer he not a word . ` my dearest life , ' say the king , ` you neither answer , nor by any visible token give I the least reason to believe that you be listen to I . why will you still keep to this obstinate silence , which chill I ? Do you mourn for you country , you friend , or you relation ? Alas ! be not the king of Persia , who love and adore you , capable of comforting , and make you amends for the loss of everything in the world ? ' but the fair slave continue she astonishing reserve ; and keep she eye still fix upon the ground , would neither look at he nor utter a word ; but after they have dine together in absolute silence , the king go to the woman whom he have assign to the fair slave as she attendant , and ask they if they have ever hear she speak . one of they presently make answer , ` Sire , we have neither see she open she lip , nor hear she speak any more than you majesty have just now ; we have render she we service ; we have comb and dress she hair , put on she clothes , and wait upon she in she chamber ; but she have never open she lip , so much as to say , that be well , or , I like this . we have often ask , Madam , do you want anything ? be there anything you wish for ? do but ask and command we : but we have never be able to draw a word from she . we can not tell whether she silence proceeds from pride , sorrow , stupidity , or dumbness ; and this be all we can inform you majesty . ' the King of Persia be more astonished at hear this than he be before : however , believe the slave might have some reason for sorrow , he endeavor to divert and amuse she , but all in vain . for a whole year she never afford he the pleasure of a single word . at length , one day there be great rejoicing in the capital , because to the king and he silent slave-queen there be bear a son and heir to the kingdom . once more the king endeavor to get a word from he wife . ` my queen , ' he say , ` I can not divine what you thought be ; but , for my own part , nothing would be want to complete my happiness and crown my joy but that you should speak to I one single word , for something within I tell I you be not dumb : and I beseech , I conjure you , to break through this long silence , and speak but one word to I ; and after that I care not how soon I die . ' at this discourse the fair slave , who , accord to she usual custom , have hearken to the king with downcast eye , and have give he cause to believe not only that she be dumb , but that she have never laugh in she life , begin to smile a little . the King of Persia perceive it with a surprise that make he break forth into a exclamation of joy ; and no longer doubting but that she be go to speak , he wait for that happy moment with a eagerness and attention that can not easily be express . at last the fair slave , break she long-kept silence , thus address herself to the king : ` Sire , ' say she , ` I have so many thing to say to you majesty , that , have once break silence , I know not where to begin . however , in the first place , I think myself in duty bind to thank you for all the favor and honor you have be please to confer upon I , and to implore Heaven to bless and prosper you , to prevent the wicked design of you enemy , and not to suffer you to die after hear I speak , but to grant you a long life . have it never be my fortune to have bear a child , I be resolve -lrb-B- I beg you majesty to pardon the sincerity of my intention -rrb-B- never to have love you , as well as to have keep a eternal silence ; but now I love you as I ought to do . ' the King of Persia , ravish to hear the fair slave speak , embrace she tenderly . ` shine light of my eye , ' say he , ` it be impossible for I to receive a greater joy than what you have now give I . ' the King of Persia , in the transport of he joy , say no more to the fair slave . he leave she , but in such a manner as make she perceive that he intention be speedily to return : and be willing that he joy should be make public , he send in all haste for the grand vizier . as soon as he come , he order he to distribute a thousand piece of gold among the holy man of he religion , who have make vow of poverty ; as also among the hospital and the poor , by way of return thanks to Heaven : and he will be obey by the direction of that minister . after the King of Persia have give this order , he return to the fair slave again . ` Madam , ' say he , ` pardon I for leave you so abruptly , but I hope you will indulge I with some conversation , since I be desirous to know several thing of great consequence . tell I , my dearest soul , what be the powerful reason that induce you to persist in that obstinate silence for a whole year together , though you see I , hear I talk to you , and eat and drink with I every day . ' to satisfy the king of Persia 's curiosity , ` think , ' reply the queen , ` whether or no to be a slave , far from my own country , without any hope of ever see it again , -- to have a heart tear with grief at be separate for ever from my mother , my brother , my friend , and my acquaintance , -- be not these sufficient reason for my keep a silence you majesty have think so strange and unaccountable ? the love of we native country be as natural to we as that of we parent ; and the loss of liberty be insupportable to every one who be not wholly destitute of common sense , and know how to set a value on it . ' ` Madam , ' reply the king , ` I be convinced of the truth of what you say ; but till this moment I be of opinion that a person beautiful like yourself , whom she evil destiny have condemn to be a slave , ought to think herself very happy in meeting with a king for she master . ' ` Sire , ' reply the fair slave , ` whatever the slave be , there be no king on earth who can tyrannise over she will . but when this very slave be in nothing inferior to the king that buy she , you majesty shall then judge yourself of she misery , and she sorrow , and to what desperate attempt the anguish of despair may drive she . ' the King of Persia , in great astonishment , say ` Madam , can it be possible that you be of royal blood ? explain the whole secret to I , I beseech you , and no longer increase my impatience . let I instantly know who be you parent , you brother , you sister , and you relation ; but , above all , what you name be . ' ` Sire , ' say the fair slave , ` my name be Gulnare , Rose of the Sea ; and my father , who be now dead , be one of the most potent monarch of the ocean . when he die , he leave he kingdom to a brother of mine , name Saleh , and to the queen , my mother , who be also a princess , the daughter of another powerful monarch of the sea . we enjoy a profound peace and tranquillity through the whole kingdom , till a neighbouring prince , envious of we happiness , invade we dominion with a mighty army ; and penetrate as far as we capital , make himself master of it ; and we have but just time enough to save ourselves in a impenetrable and inaccessible place , with a few trusty officer who do not forsake we in we distress . ` in this retreat my brother contrived all manner of way to drive the unjust invader from we dominion . one day `` sister , '' say he , `` I may fail in the attempt I intend to make to recover my kingdom ; and I shall be less concerned for my own disgrace than for what may possibly happen to you . to prevent it , and to secure you from all accident , I would fain see you married first : but in the miserable condition of we affair at present , I see no probability of match you to any of the prince of the sea ; and therefore I should be very glad if you would think of marry some of the prince of the earth I be ready to contribute all that lie in my power towards it ; and I be certain there be not one of they , however powerful , but would be proud of share he crown with you . '' ` at this discourse of my brother 's , I fall into a violent passion . `` Brother , '' say I , `` you know that I be descend , as well as you , by both father 's and mother 's side , from the king and queen of the sea , without any mixture of alliance with those of the earth ; therefore I do not intend to marry below myself , any more than they do . the condition to which we be reduce shall never oblige I to alter my resolution ; and if you perish in the execution of you design , I be prepare to fall with you , rather than to follow the advice I so little expect from you . '' ` my brother , who be still earnest for the marriage , however improper for I , endeavor to make I believe that there be king of the earth who be nowise inferior to those of the sea . this put I into a more violent passion , which occasion he to say several bitter word that sting I to the quick . he leave I as much dissatisfied with myself as he could possibly be with I ; and in this peevish mood I give a spring from the bottom of the sea up to the island of the moon . ` notwithstanding the violent displeasure that make I cast myself upon that island , I live content in retirement . but in spite of all my precaution , a person of distinction , attend by he servant , surprise I sleep , and carry I to he own house , and wish I to marry he . when he see that fair means would not prevail upon I , he attempt to make use of force ; but I soon make he repent of he insolence . so at last he resolve to sell I ; which he do to that very merchant who bring I hither and sell I to you majesty . this man be a very prudent , courteous , humane person , and during the whole of the long journey , never give I the least reason to complain . ` as for you majesty , ' continue Queen Gulnare , ` if you have not show I all the respect you have hitherto pay , and give I such undeniable mark of you affection that I could no longer doubt of it , I hesitate not to tell you plainly that I should not have remain with you . I would have throw myself into the sea out of this very window , and I would have go in search of my mother , my brother , and the rest of my relation ; and , therefore , I hope you will no longer look upon I as a slave , but as a princess worthy of you alliance . ' after this manner Queen Gulnare discover herself to the King of Persia , and finish she story . ` my charming , my adorable queen , ' cry he , ` what wonder have I hear ! I must ask a thousand question concern those strange and unheard-of thing which you have relate to I . I beseech you to tell I more about the kingdom and people of the sea , who be altogether unknown to I . I have hear much talk , indeed , of the inhabitant of the sea , but I always look upon it as nothing but a tale or fable ; but , by what you have tell I , I be convince there be nothing more true ; and I have a very good proof of it in you own person , who be one of they , and be pleased to condescend to be my wife ; which be a honor no other inhabitant on the earth can boast of besides myself . there be one thing yet which puzzle I ; therefore I must beg the favor of you to explain it ; that be , I can not comprehend how it be possible for you to live or move in the water without be drown . there be very few amongst we who have the art of stay under water ; and they would surely perish , if , after a certain time , they do not come up again . ' ` Sire , ' reply Queen Gulnare , ` I shall with pleasure satisfy the king of Persia . we can walk at the bottom of the sea with as much ease as you can upon land ; and we can breathe in the water as you do in the air ; so that instead of suffocate we , as it do you , it absolutely contribute to the preservation of we life . what be yet more remarkable be , that it never wet we clothes ; so that when we have a mind to visit the earth , we have no occasion to dry they . we common language be the same as that of the writing engrave upon the seal of the great prophet Solomon , the son of David . ` I must not forget to tell you , further , that the water do not in the least hinder we from see in the sea ; for we can open we eye without any inconvenience ; and as we have quick , pierce sight , we can discern any object as clearly in the deepest part of the sea as upon land . we have also there a succession of day and night ; the moon afford we she light , and even the planet and the star appear visible to we . I have already speak of we kingdom ; but as the sea be much more spacious than the earth , so there be a greater number of they , and of greater extent . they be divide into province ; and in each province there be several great city , well people . in short , there be a infinite number of nation , differ in manners and custom , just as upon the earth . ` the palace of the king and prince be very sumptuous and magnificent . some of they be of marble of various color ; other of rock-crystal , with which the sea abound , mother of pearl , coral , and of other material more valuable ; gold , silver , and all sort of precious stone be more plentiful there than on earth . I say nothing of the pearl , since the largest that ever be see upon earth would not be value amongst we ; and none but the very lowest rank of citizen would wear they . ` as we can transport ourselves whither we please in the twinkling of a eye , we have no occasion for any carriage or riding-horses ; not but what the king have he stable , and he stud of sea-horses ; but they be seldom make use of , except upon public feast or rejoice day . some , after they have train they , take delight in ride they , and show they skill and dexterity in race ; other put they to chariot of mother-of-pearl , adorn with a infinite number of shell of all sort , of the brightest color . these chariot be open ; and in the middle there be a throne upon which the king sit , and show himself to he subject . the horse be train up to draw by themselves ; so that there be no occasion for a charioteer to guide they . I pass over a thousand other curious particulars relate to these marine country , which would be very entertaining to you majesty ; but you must permit I to defer it to a future leisure , to speak of something of much greater consequence . I should like to send for my mother and my cousin , and at the same time to desire the king my brother 's company , to whom I have a great desire to be reconcile . they will be very glad to see I again , after I have relate my story to they , and when they understand I be wife to the mighty king of Persia . I beseech you majesty to give I leave to send for they : I be sure they will be happy to pay they respects to you ; and I venture to say you will be extremely pleased to see they . ' ` Madam , ' reply the king of Persia , ` you be mistress ; do whatever you please ; I will endeavor to receive they with all the honor they deserve . but I would fain know how you would acquaint they with what you desire , and when they will arrive , that I may give order to make preparation for they reception , and go myself in person to meet they . ' ` Sire , ' reply the Queen Gulnare , ` there be no need of these ceremony ; they will be here in a moment ; and if you Majesty will but look through the lattice , you shall see the manner of they arrival . ' Queen Gulnare then order one of she woman to bring she a brazier with a little fire . after that she bid she retire , and shut the door . when she be alone , she take a piece of aloe out of a box , and put it into the brazier . as soon as she see the smoke rise , she repeat some word unknown to the King of Persia , who from a recess observe with great attention all that she do . she have no sooner end , than the sea begin to be disturb . at length the sea open at some distance ; and presently there rise out of it a tall , handsome young man , with moustache of a sea-green color ; a little behind he , a lady , advance in year , but of a majestic air , attend by five young lady , nowise inferior in beauty to the Queen Gulnare . Queen Gulnare immediately go to one of the window , and see the king she brother , the queen she mother , and the rest of she relation , who at the same time perceive she also . the company come forward , bear , as it be , upon the surface of the wave . when they come to the edge , they nimbly , one after another , spring up to the window , from whence Queen Gulnare have retire to make room for they . King Saleh , the queen she mother , and the rest of she relation , embrace she tenderly , with tear in they eye , on they first entrance . after Queen Gulnare have receive they with all imaginable honor , and make they sit down upon a sofa , the queen she mother address herself to she : ` Daughter , ' say she , ` I be overjoy to see you again after so long a absence ; and I be confident that you brother and you relation be no less so . you leave we without acquaint anybody with it involve we in inexpressible concern ; and it be impossible to tell you how many tear we have shed upon that account . we know of no other reason that could induce you to take such a surprising step , but what you brother tell we of the conversation that pass between he and you . the advice he give you seem to he at that time very advantageous for settle you handsomely in the world , and very suitable to the then posture of we affair . if you have not approve of he proposal , you ought not to have be so much alarm ; and , give I leave to tell you , you take the thing in a quite different light from what you ought to have do . but no more of this ; we and you ought now to bury it for ever in oblivion : give we a account of all that have happen to you since we see you last , and of you present situation ; but especially let we know if you be satisfied . ' Queen Gulnare immediately throw herself at she mother 's foot ; and after rise and kiss she hand , ` I own , ' say she , ` I have be guilty of a very great fault , and I be indebted to you goodness for the pardon which you be pleased to grant I . ' she then relate the whole of what have befall she since she quit the sea . as soon as she have acquaint they with she have be sell to the King of Persia , in whose palace she be at present ; ` sister , ' say the king she brother , ` you now have it in you power to free yourself . rise , and return with we into my kingdom , that I have reconquer from the proud usurper who have make himself master of it . ' the King of Persia , who hear these word from the recess where he be conceal , be in the utmost alarm . ` ah ! ' say he to himself , ` I be ruin ; and if my queen , my Gulnare , hearken to this advice , and leave I , I shall surely die . ' but Queen Gulnare soon put he out of he fear . ` brother , ' say she , smile , ` I can scarce forbear be angry with you for advise I to break the engagement I have make with the most puissant and most renowned monarch in the world . I do not speak here of a engagement between a slave and she master ; it would be easy to return the ten thousand piece of gold that I cost he ; but I speak now of a contract between a wife and a husband , and a wife who have not the least reason to complain . he be a religious , wise , and temperate king . I be he wife , and he have declare I Queen of Persia , to share with he in he council . besides , I have a child , the little Prince Beder . I hope then neither my mother , nor you , nor any of my cousin , will disapprove of the resolution or the alliance I have make , which will be a equal honor to the king of the sea and the earth . excuse I for give you the trouble of come hither from the bottom of the deep , to communicate it to you , and for the pleasure of see you after so long a separation . ' ` sister , ' reply King Saleh , ` the proposal I make you of go back with we into my kingdom be only to let you see how much we all love you , and how much I in particular honor you , and that nothing in the world be so dear to I as you happiness . ' the queen confirm what she son have just speak , and address herself to Queen Gulnare , say , ` I be very glad to hear you be pleased ; and I have nothing else to add to what you brother have just say to you . I should have be the first to have condemn you , if you have not express all the gratitude you owe to a monarch that love you so passionately , and have do such great thing for you . ' when the king of Persia , who be still in the recess , hear this he begin to love she more than ever , and resolve to express he gratitude in every possible way . presently Queen Gulnare clap she hand , and in come some of she slave , whom she have order to bring in a meal : as soon as it be serve up , she invite the queen she mother , the king she brother , and she cousin , to sit down and take part of it . they begin to reflect , that without ask leave , they have get into the palace of a mighty king , who have never see nor hear of they , and that it would be a great piece of rudeness to eat at he table without he . this reflection raise a blush in they face ; in they emotion they eye glow like fire , and they breathe flame at they mouth and nostril . this unexpected sight put the king of Persia , who be totally ignorant of the cause of it , into a dreadful consternation . Queen Gulnare suspect this , and understand the intention of she relation , rise from she seat , and tell they she would be back in a moment . she go directly to the recess , and recover the King of Persia from he surprise . ` Sir , ' say she , ` give I leave to assure you of the sincere friendship that the queen my mother and the king my brother be please to honor you with : they earnestly desire to see you , and tell you so themselves : I intend to have some conversation with they by order a banquet for they , before I introduce they to you majesty , but they be very impatient to pay they respects to you : and therefore I desire you majesty would be please to walk in , and honor they with you presence . ' ` Madam , ' say the king of Persia , ` I should be very glad to salute person that have the honor to be so nearly relate to you , but I be afraid of the flame that they breathe at they mouth and nostril . ' ` Sir , ' reply the queen , laugh , ` you need not in the least be afraid of those flame , which be nothing but a sign of they unwillingness to eat in you palace , without you honor they with you presence , and eat with they . ' the King of Persia , encourage by these word , rise up , and come out into the room with he Queen Gulnare . she present he to the queen she mother , to the king she brother , and to she other relation , who instantly throw themselves at he foot , with they face to the ground . the King of Persia run to they , and lift they up , embrace they one after another . after they be all seat , King Saleh begin : ` Sir , ' say he to the King of Persia , ` we be at a loss for word to express we joy to think that the queen my sister should have the happiness of fall under the protection of so powerful a monarch . we can assure you she be not unworthy of the high rank you have be please to raise she to ; and we have always have so much love and tenderness for she , that we could never think of parting with she to any of the puissant prince of the sea , who often demand she in marriage before she come of age . Heaven have reserve she for you , Sir , and we have no better way of return thanks to it for the favor it have do she , than by beseech it to grant you majesty a long and happy life with she , and to crown you with prosperity and satisfaction . ' ` certainly , ' reply the king of Persia , ` I can not sufficiently thank either the queen she mother , or you , Prince , or you whole family , for the generosity with which you have consent to receive I into a alliance so glorious to I as yours . ' so say , he invite they to take part of the luncheon , and he and he queen sit down at the table with they . after it be over , the King of Persia converse with they till it be very late ; and when they think it time to retire , he wait upon they himself to the several room he have order to be prepare for they . next day , as the King of Persia , Queen Gulnare , the queen she mother , King Saleh she brother , and the princess they relation , be discourse together in she majesty 's room , the nurse come in with the young Prince Beder in she arm . King Saleh no sooner see he , than he run to embrace he ; and take he in he arm , fall to kiss and caress he with the greatest demonstration of tenderness . he take several turn with he about the room , dancing and toss he about , when all of a sudden , through a transport of joy , the window be open , he spring out , and plunge with he into the sea . the King of Persia , who expect no such sight , set up a hideous cry , verily believe that he should either see the dear prince he son no more , or else that he should see he drown ; and he nearly die of grief and affliction . ` Sir , ' say Queen Gulnare -lrb-B- with a quiet and undisturbed countenance , the better to comfort he -rrb-B- , ` let you majesty fear nothing ; the young prince be my son as well as yours , and I do not love he less than you do . you see I be not alarm ; neither in truth ought I to be so . he run no risk , and you will soon see the king he uncle appear with he again , and bring he back safe and sound . for he will have the same advantage he uncle and I have , of live equally in the sea and upon the land . ' the queen he mother and the princess he relation confirm the same thing ; yet all they say have no effect on the king 's fright , from which he could not recover till he see Prince Beder appear again before he . the sea at length become troubled , when immediately King Saleh arise with the young prince in he arm , and hold he up in the air , he re-entered at the same window he go out at . the King of Persia be overjoy to see Prince Beder again , and astonish that he be as calm as before he lose sight of he , King Saleh say , ` Sir , be not you majesty in a great fright , when you first see I plunge into the sea with the prince my nephew ? ' ` AlasS ! Prince , ' answer the king of Persia , ` I can not express my concern . I think he lose from that very moment , and you now restore life to I by bring he again . ' ` I think as much , ' reply King Saleh , ` though you have not the least reason to apprehend any danger ; for , before I plunge into the sea with he I pronounce over he certain mysterious word , which be engraven on the seal of the great Solomon , the son of David . we do the same to all those child that be bear in the region at the bottom of the sea , by virtue of which they receive the same privilege that we have over those people who inhabit the earth . from what you majesty have observe , you may easily see what advantage you son Prince Beder have acquire by he birth , for as long as he live , and as often as he please , he will be at liberty to plunge into the sea , and traverse the vast empire it contain in its bosom . ' have so speak , King Saleh , who have restore Prince Beder to he nurse 's arm , open a box he have fetch from he palace in the little time he have disappear . it be fill with three hundred diamond , as large as pigeon ' egg , a like number of ruby of extraordinary size , as many emerald wand , each half a foot long , and thirty string or necklace of pearl , consist each of ten foot . ` Sir , ' say he to the King of Persia , present he with this box , ` when I be first summon by the queen my sister , I know not what part of the earth she be in , or that she have the honor to be marry to so great a monarch . this make we come empty hand . as we can not express how much we have be oblige to you majesty , I beg you to accept this small token of gratitude , in acknowledgment of the many particular favor you have be please to show she . ' it be impossible to express how greatly the king of Persia be surprise at the sight of so much riches , enclose in so little compass . ` what ! Prince , ' cry he , ` do you call so inestimable a present a small token of you gratitude ? I declare once more , you have never be in the least obliged to I , neither the queen you mother nor you . Madam , ' continue he , turn to Gulnare , ` the king you brother have put I into the greatest confusion ; and I would beg of he to permit I to refuse he present , be I not afraid of disoblige he ; do you therefore endeavor to obtain he leave that I may be excuse accept it . ' ` Sir , ' reply King Saleh , ` I be not at all surprise that you majesty think this present so extraordinary . I know you be not accustom upon earth to see precious stone of this quality and quantity : but if you know , as I do , the mine whence these jewel be take , and that it be in my power to form a treasure greater than those of all the king of the earth , you would wonder we should have the boldness to make you a present of so small a value . I beseech you , therefore , not to regard it in that light , but on account of the sincere friendship which oblige we to offer it to you not to give we the mortification of refuse it . ' this oblige the King of Persia to accept the present , for which he return many thanks both to King Saleh and the queen he mother . a few day after , King Saleh give the King of Persia to understand that the queen he mother , the princess he relation and himself , could have no greater pleasure than to spend they whole life at he court ; but that have be so long absent from they own kingdom , where they presence be absolutely necessary , they beg of he not to take it ill if they take leave of he and Queen Gulnare . the King of Persia assure they he be very sorry that it be not in he power to return they visit in they own dominion ; but he add , ` as I be verily persuade you will not forget Queen Gulnare , but come and see she now and then , I hope I shall have the honor to see you again more than once . ' many tear be shed on both side upon they separation . King Saleh depart first ; but the queen he mother , and the princess he relation , be fain to force themselves in a manner from the embrace of Queen Gulnare , who could not prevail upon herself to let they go . this royal company be no sooner out of sight than the King of Persia say to Queen Gulnare , ` Madam , I should have look with suspicion upon the person that have pretend to pass those off upon I for true wonder , of which I myself have be a eye-witness from the time I have be honor with you illustrious family at my court . but I can not refuse to believe my own eye ; and shall remember it as long as I live , and never cease to bless Heaven for send you to I , instead of to any other prince . '