100 the Devil 's Sooty Brother BrothersS Grimm a disbanded soldier have nothing to live on , and do not know how to get on . so he go out into the forest and when he have walk for a short time , he meet a little man who be , however , the Devil . the little man say to he , `` what ail you , you seem so very sorrowful ? '' then the soldier say , `` I be hungry , but have no money . '' the Devil say , `` if you will hire yourself to I , and be my serving-man , you shall have enough for all you life ? you shall serve I for seven year , and after that you shall again be free . but one thing I must tell you , and that be , you must not wash , comb , or trim yourself , or cut you hair or nail , or wipe the water from you eye . '' the soldier say , `` all right , if there be no help for it , '' and go off with the little man , who straightway lead he down into hell . then he tell he what he have to do . he be to poke the fire under the kettle wherein the hell-broth be stew , keep the house clean , drive all the sweepings behind the door , and see that everything be in order , but if he once peep into the kettle , it would go ill with he . the soldier say , `` good , I will take care . '' and then the old Devil go out again on he wanderings , and the soldier enter upon he new duty , make the fire , and sweep the dirt well behind the door , just as he have be bid . when the old Devil come back again , he look to see if all have be do , appear satisfied , and go forth a second time . the soldier now take a good look on every side ; the kettle be stand all round hell with a mighty fire below they , and inside they be boil and sputter . he would have give anything to look inside they , if the Devil have not so particularly forbid he : at last , he could no longer restrain himself , slightly raise the lid of the first kettle , and peep in , and there he see he former corporal shut in . `` Aha , old bird ! '' say he , `` do I meet you here ? you once have I in you power , now I have you , '' and he quickly let the lid fall , poke the fire , and add a fresh log . after that , he go to the second kettle , raise its lid also a little , and peep in ; he former ensign be in that . `` Aha , old bird , so I find you here ! you once have I in you power , now I have you . '' he close the lid again , and fetch yet another log to make it really hot . then he want to see who might be sit up in the third kettle it be actually be but a general . `` Aha , old bird , do I meet you here ? once you have I in you power , now I have you . '' and he fetch the bellows and make hell-fire blaze right under he . so he do he work seven year in hell , do not wash , comb , or trim himself , or cut he hair or nail , or wash the water out of he eye , and the seven year seem so short to he that he think he have only be half a year . now when the time have fully go by , the Devil come and say , `` Well Hans , what have you do ? '' `` I poke the fire under the kettle , and I have sweep all the dirt well behind the door . '' `` but you have peep into the kettle as well ; it be lucky for you that you add fresh log to they , or else you life would have be forfeit ; now that you time be up , will you go home again ? '' `` yes , '' say the soldier , `` I should very much like to see what my father be do at home . '' the Devil say , `` in order that you may receive the wages you have earn , go and fill you knapsack full of the sweepings , and take it home with you . you must also go unwashed and uncombed , with long hair on you head and beard , and with uncut nail and dim eye , and when you be ask whence you come , you must say , `` from hell , '' and when you be ask who you be , you be to say , `` the Devil 's sooty brother , and my king as well . '' the soldier hold he peace , and do as the Devil bade he , but he be not at all satisfy with he wages . then as soon as he be up in the forest again , he take he knapsack from he back , to empty it , but on open it , the sweepings have become pure gold . `` I should never have expect that , '' say he , and be well pleased , and enter the town . the landlord be stand in front of the inn , and when he see the soldier approach , he be terrify , because Hans look so horrible , worse than a scare-crow . he call to he and ask , `` whence comest thou ? '' `` from hell . '' `` who art thou ? '' `` the Devil 's sooty brother , and my king as well . '' then the host would not let he enter , but when Hans show he the gold , he come and unlatch the door himself . Hans then order the best room and attendance , eat , and drink he fill , but neither wash nor comb himself as the Devil have bid he , and at last lay down to sleep . but the knapsack full of gold remain before the eye of the landlord , and leave he no peace , and during the night he creep in and steal it away . next morning , however , when Hans get up and want to pay the landlord and travel further , behold he knapsack be go ! but he soon compose himself and think , `` Thou hast be unfortunate from no fault of thine own , '' and straightway go back again to hell , complain of he misfortune to the old Devil , and beg for he help . the Devil say , `` seat yourself , I will wash , comb , and trim you , cut you hair and nail , and wash you eye for you , '' and when he have do with he , he give he the knapsack back again full of sweepings , and say , `` go and tell the landlord that he must return you you money , or else I will come and fetch he , and he shall poke the fire in you place . '' Hans go up and say to the landlord , `` Thou hast steal my money ; if thou dost not return it , thou shalt go down to hell in my place , and wilt look as horrible as i. '' then the landlord give he the money , and more besides , only beg he to keep it secret , and Hans be now a rich man . he set out on he way home to he father , buy himself a shabby smock-frock to wear , and stroll about make music , for he have learn to do that while he be with the Devil in hell . there be however , a old king in that country , before whom he have to play , and the King be so delighted with he playing , that he promise he he eldest daughter in marriage . but when she hear that she be to be marry to a common fellow in a smock-frock , she say , `` rather than do that , I would go into the deepest water . '' then the King give he the youngest , who be quite willing to do it to please she father , and thus the Devil 's sooty brother get the King 's daughter , and when the age King die , the whole kingdom likewise .