28 the sing Bone BrothersS Grimm in a certain country there be once great lamentation over a wild boar that lay waste the farmer 's field , kill the cattle , and rip up people 's body with he tusk . the King promise a large reward to anyone who would free the land from this plague ; but the beast be so big and strong that no one dare to go near the forest in which it live . at last the King give notice that whosoever should capture or kill the wild boar should have he only daughter to wife . now there live in the country two brother , son of a poor man , who declare themselves willing to undertake the hazardous enterprise ; the elder , who be crafty and shrewd , out of pride ; the younger , who be innocent and simple , from a kind heart . the King say , `` in order that you may be the more sure of find the beast , you must go into the forest from opposite side . '' so the elder go in on the west side , and the younger on the east . when the younger have go a short way , a little man step up to he . he hold in he hand a black spear and say , `` I give you this spear because you heart be pure and good ; with this you can boldly attack the wild boar , and it will do you no harm . '' he thank the little man , shoulder the spear , and go on fearlessly . before long he see the beast , which rush at he ; but he hold the spear towards it , and in its blind fury it run so swiftly against it that its heart be cleave in twain . then he take the monster on he back and go homeward with it to the King . as he come out at the other side of the wood , there stand at the entrance a house where people be make merry with wine and dancing . he elder brother have go in here , and , think that after all the boar would not run away from he , be go to drink until he feel brave . but when he see he young brother come out of the wood laden with he booty , he envious , evil heart give he no peace . he call out to he , `` come in , dear brother , rest and refresh yourself with a cup of wine . '' the youth , who suspect no evil , go in and tell he about the good little man who have give he the spear wherewith he have slay the boar . the elder brother keep he there until the evening , and then they go away together , and when in the darkness they come to a bridge over a brook , the elder brother let the other go first ; and when he be half-way across he give he such a blow from behind that he fall down dead . he bury he beneath the bridge , take the boar , and carry it to the King , pretend that he have kill it ; whereupon he obtain the King 's daughter in marriage . and when he younger brother do not come back he say , `` the boar must have kill he , '' and every one believe it . but as nothing remain hidden from God , so this black deed also be to come to light . year afterwards a shepherd be drive he herd across the bridge , and see lie in the sand beneath , a snow-white little bone . he think that it would make a good mouth-piece , so he clamber down , pick it up , and cut out of it a mouth-piece for he horn . but when he blow through it for the first time , to he great astonishment , the bone begin of its own accord to sing : `` ah , friend , thou blowest upon my bone ! Long have I lie beside the water ; my brother slew I for the boar , and take for he wife the King 's young daughter . '' `` what a wonderful horn ! '' say the shepherd ; `` it sing by itself ; I must take it to my lord the King . '' and when he come with it to the King the horn again begin to sing its little song . the King understand it all , and cause the ground below the bridge to be dig up , and then the whole skeleton of the murder man come to light . the wicked brother could not deny the deed , and be sew up in a sack and drown . but the bone of the murder man be lay to rest in a beautiful tomb in the churchyard .