114 the Cunning Little Tailor BrothersS Grimm there be once on a time a princess who be extremely proud . if a wooer come she give he some riddle to guess , and if he could not find it out , he be send contemptuously away . she let it be make know also that whosoever solve she riddle should marry she , let he be who he might . at length , therefore , three tailor fall in with each other , the two eldest of whom think they have do so many dexterous bit of work successfully that they could not fail to succeed in this also ; the third be a little useless land-louper , who do not even know he trade , but think he must have some luck in this venture , for where else be it to come from ? then the two other say to he , `` just stay at home ; thou canst not do much with thy little bit of understanding . '' the little tailor , however , do not let himself be discourage , and say he have set he head to work about this for once , and he would manage well enough , and he go forth as if the whole world be he . they all three announce themselves to the princess , and say she be to propound she riddle to they , and that the right person be now come , who have understanding so fine that they could be thread in a needle . then say the princess , `` I have two kind of hair on my head , of what color be it ? '' `` if that be all , '' say the first , `` it must be black and white , like the cloth which be call pepper and salt . '' the princess say , `` wrongly guess ; let the second answer . '' then say the second , `` if it be not black and white , then it be brown and red , like my father 's company coat . '' `` wrongly guess , '' say the princess , `` let the third give the answer , for I see very well he know it for certain . '' then the little tailor step boldly forth and say , `` the princess have a silver and a golden hair on she head , and those be the two different color . '' when the princess hear that , she turn pale and nearly fall down with terror , for the little tailor have guess she riddle , and she have firmly believe that no man on earth could discover it . when she courage return she say , `` Thou hast not win I yet by that ; there be still something else that thou must do . Below , in the stable be a bear with which thou shalt pass the night , and when I get up in the morning if thou art still alive , thou shalt marry I . '' she expect , however , she should thus get rid of the tailor , for the bear have never yet leave any one alive who have fall into he clutch . the little tailor do not let himself be frighten away , but be quite delighted , and say , `` boldly venture be half won . '' when therefore the evening come , we little tailor be take down to the bear . the bear be about to set at the little fellow at once , and give he a hearty welcome with he paw : `` Softly , softly , '' say the little tailor , `` I will soon make thee quiet . '' then quite composedly , and as if he have not a anxiety in the world , he take some nut out of he pocket , crack they , and eat the kernel . when the bear see that , he be seize with a desire to have some nut too . the tailor feel in he pocket , and reach he a handful ; they be , however , not nut , but pebble . the bear put they in he mouth , but could get nothing out of they , let he bite as he would . `` eh ! '' thought he , `` what a stupid blockhead I be ! I can not even crack a nut ! '' and then he say to the tailor , `` here , crack I the nut . '' `` there , see what a stupid fellow thou art ! '' say the little tailor , `` to have such a great mouth , and not be able to crack a small nut ! '' then he take the pebble and nimbly put a nut in he mouth in the place of it , and crack , it be in two ! `` I must try the thing again , '' say the bear ; `` when I watch you , I then think I ought to be able to do it too . '' so the tailor once more give he a pebble , and the bear try and try to bite into it with all the strength of he body . but no one will imagine that he accomplish it . when that be over , the tailor take out a violin from beneath he coat , and play a piece of it to himself . when the bear hear the music , he could not help begin to dance , and when he have dance a while , the thing please he so well that he say to the little tailor , `` Hark you , be the fiddle heavy ? '' `` light enough for a child . look , with the left hand I lay my finger on it , and with the right i stroke it with the bow , and then it go merrily , hop sa sa vivallalera ! '' `` so , '' say the bear ; `` fiddling be a thing I should like to understand too , that I might dance whenever I have a fancy . what dost thou think of that ? Wilt thou give I lesson ? '' `` with all my heart , '' say the tailor , `` if thou hast a talent for it . but just let I see thy claw , they be terribly long , I must cut thy nail a little . '' then a vise be bring , and the bear put he claw in it , and the little tailor screw it tight , and say , `` now wait until I come with the scissors , '' and he let the bear growl as he like , and lay down in the corner on a bundle of straw , and fall asleep . when the princess hear the bear growl so fiercely during the night , she believe nothing else but that he be growl for joy , and have make a end of the tailor . in the morning she arise careless and happy , but when she peep into the stable , the tailor stand gaily before she , and be as healthy as a fish in water . now she could not say another word against the wedding because she have give a promise before every one , and the King order a carriage to be bring in which she be to drive to church with the tailor , and there she be to be marry . when they have get into the carriage , the two other tailor , who have false heart and envy he he good fortune , go into the stable and unscrewed the bear again . the bear in great fury run after the carriage . the princess hear he snort and growl ; she be terrify , and she cry , `` ah , the bear be behind we and want to get thee ! '' the tailor be quick and stand on he head , stick he leg out of the window , and cry , `` dost thou see the vise ? if thou dost not be off thou shalt be put into it again . '' when the bear see that , he turn round and run away . the tailor drive quietly to church , and the princess be marry to he at once , and he live with she as happy as a woodlark . Whosoever do not believe this , must pay a thaler .