the IVORY CITY AND ITS FAIRY PRINCESS Indian Writer one day a young prince be out practise archery with the son of he father 's chief vizier , when one of the arrow accidentally strike the wife of a merchant , who be walk about in a upper room of a house close by . the prince aim at a bird that be perch on the window - sill of that room , and have not the slightest idea that anybody be at hand , or he would not have shoot in that direction . consequently , not know what have happen , he and the vizier 's son walk away , the vizier 's son chaff he because he have miss the bird . presently the merchant go to ask he wife about something , and find she lie , to all appearance , dead in the middle of the room , and a arrow fix in the ground within half a yard of she head . suppose that she be dead , he rush to the window and shriek , `` thief thief ! they have kill my wife . '' the neighbor quickly gather , and the servant come run upstairs to see what be the matter . it happen that the woman have faint , and that there be only a very slight wound in she breast where the arrow have graze . as soon as the woman recover she sens she tell they that two young man have pass by the place with they bow and arrow , and that one of they have most deliberately aim at she as she stand by the window . on hearing this the merchant go to the king , and tell he what have take place . he Majesty be much enrage at such audacious wickedness , and swear that most terrible punishment should be visit on the offender if he could be discover . he order the merchant to go back and ascertain whether he wife could recognize the young man if she see they again . `` oh yes , '' reply the woman , `` I should know they again among all the people in the city . '' `` then , '' say the king , when the merchant bring back this reply , `` to - morrow I will cause all the male inhabitant of this city to pass before you house , and you wife will stand at the window and watch for the man who do this wanton deed . '' a royal proclamation be issue to this effect . so the next day all the man and boy of the city , from the age of ten year upwards , assemble and march by the house of the merchant . by chance -lrb-B- for they both have be excuse from obey this order -rrb-B- the king 's son and the vizier 's son be also in the company , and pass by in the crowd . they come to see the tamasha . as soon as these two appear in front of the merchant 's window they be recognize by the merchant 's wife , and at once report to the king . `` my own son and the son of my chief vizier ! '' exclaim the king , who have be present from the commencement . `` what example for the people ! let they both be execute . '' `` not so , you Majesty , '' say the vizier , `` I beseech you let the fact of the case be thoroughly investigate . how be it ? '' he continue , turn to the two young man . `` why have you do this cruel thing ? '' `` I shoot a arrow at a bird that be sit on the sill of a open window in yonder house , and miss , '' answer the prince . `` I suppose the arrow strike the merchant 's wife . have I know that she or anybody have be near I should not have shoot in that direction . '' `` we will speak of this later on , '' say the king , on hearing this answer . `` dismiss the people . they presence be no longer need . '' in the evening he Majesty and the vizier have a long and earnest talk about they two son . the king wish both of they to be execute ; but the vizier suggest that the prince should be banish from the country . this be finally agree to . accordingly , on the following morning , a little company of soldier escort the prince out of the city . when they reach the last custom - house the vizier 's son overtook they . he have come with all haste , bring with he four bag of muhr on four horse . `` I be come , '' he say , throw he arm round the prince 's neck , `` because I can not let you go alone . we have live together , we will be exile together , and we will die together . turn I not back , if you love I . '' `` consider , '' the prince answer , `` what you be do . all kind of trial may be before I . why should you leave you home and country to be with I ? '' `` because I love you , '' he say , `` and shall never be happy without you . '' so the two friend walk along hand in hand as fast as they could to get out of the country , and behind they march the soldier and the horse with they valuable burden . on reach a place on the border of the king 's dominion the prince give the soldier some gold , and order they to return . the soldier take the money and leave ; they do not , however , go very far , but hide themselves behind rock and stone , and wait till they be quite sure that the prince do not intend to come back . on and on the exile walk , till they arrive at a certain village , where they determine to spend the night under one of the big tree of the place . the prince make preparation for a fire , and arrange the few article of bedding that they have with they , while the vizier 's son go to the baniya and the baker and the butcher to get something for they dinner . for some reason he be delay ; perhaps the tsut be not quite ready , or the baniya have not get all the spice prepare . after wait half a hour the prince become impatient , and rise up and walk about . he see a pretty , clear little brook run along not far from they resting-place , and hearing that its source be not far distant , he start off to find it . the source be a beautiful lake , which at that time be cover with the magnificent lotus flower and other water plant . the prince sit down on the bank , and be thirsty take up some of the water in he hand . fortunately he look into he hand before drinking , and there , to he great astonishment , he see reflect whole and clear the image of a beautiful fairy . he look round , hope to see the reality ; but see no person , he drink the water , and put out he hand to take some more . again he see the reflection in the water which be in he palm . he look around as before , and this time discover a fairy sit by the bank on the opposite side of the lake . on see she he fall so madly in love with she that he drop down in a swoon . when the vizier 's son return , and find the fire light , the horse securely fasten , and the bag of muhr lie altogether in a heap , but no prince , he do not know what to think . he wait a little while , and then shout ; but not get any reply , he get up and go to the brook . there he come across the footmark of he friend . see these , he go back at once for the money and the horse , and bring they with he , he track the prince to the lake , where he find he lie to all appearance dead . `` Alas ! alas ! '' he cry , and lift up the prince , he pour some water over he head and face . `` Alas ! my brother , what be this ? oh ! do not die and leave I thus . speak , speak ! I can not bear this ! '' in a few minute the prince , revive by the water , open he eye , and look about wildly . `` thank God ! '' exclaim the vizier 's son . `` but what be the matter , brother ? '' `` go away , '' reply the prince . `` I do not want to say anything to you , or to see you . go away . '' `` come , come ; let we leave this place . look , I have bring some food for you , and horse , and everything . let we eat and depart . '' `` go alone , '' reply the prince . `` never , '' say the vizier 's son . `` what have happen to suddenly estrange you from I ? a little while ago we be brethren , but now you detest the sight of I . '' `` I have look upon a fairy , '' the prince say . `` but a moment I see she face ; for when she notice that I be look at she she cover she face with lotus petal . oh , how beautiful she be ! and while I gaze she take out of she bosom a ivory box , and hold it up to I . then I faint . oh ! if you can get I that fairy for my wife , I will go anywhere with you . '' `` oh , brother , '' say the vizier 's son , `` you have indeed see a fairy . she be a fairy of the fairy . this be none other than Gulizar of the Ivory City . I know this from the sign that she give you . from she cover she face with lotus petal I learn she name , and from she showing you the ivory box I learn where she live . be patient , and rest assure that I will arrange you marriage with she . '' when the prince hear these encouraging word he feel much comfort , rise up , and eat , and then go away gladly with he friend . on the way they meet two man . these two man belong to a family of robber . there be eleven of they altogether . one , a elder sister , stay at home and cook the food , and the other ten -- all brother -- go out , two and two , and walk about the four different way that run through that part of the country , rob those traveller who could not resist they , and invite other , who be too powerful for two of they to manage , to come and rest at they house , where the whole family attack they and steal they goods . these thief live in a kind of tower , which have several strong-rooms in it , and under it be a great pit , wherein they throw the corpse of the poor unfortunate who chance to fall into they power . the two man come forward , and , politely accost they , beg they to come and stay at they house for the night . `` it be late , '' they say , `` and there be not another village within several mile . '' `` Shall we accept this good man 's invitation , brother ? '' ask the prince . the vizier 's son frown slightly in token of disapproval ; but the prince be tire , and think that it be only a whim of he friend 's , he say to the man , `` very well . it be very kind of you to ask we . '' so they all four go to the robber ' tower . seat in a room , with the door fasten on the outside , the two traveller bemoan they fate . `` it be no good groaning , '' say the vizier 's son . `` I will climb to the window , and see whether there be any means of escape . yes ! yes ! '' he whisper , when he have reach the window-hole . `` Below there be a ditch surround by a high wall . I will jump down and reconnoitre . you stay here , and wait till I return . '' presently he come back and tell the prince that he have see a most ugly woman , whom he suppose be the robber ' housekeeper . she have agree to release they on the promise of she marriage with the prince . so the woman lead the way out of the enclosure by a secret door . `` but where be the horse and the goods ? '' the vizier 's son inquire . `` you can not bring they , '' the woman say . `` to go out by any other way would be to thrust oneself into the grave . '' `` all right , then ; they also shall go out by this door . I have a charm , whereby I can make they thin or fat . '' so the vizier 's son fetch the horse without any person know it , and repeat the charm , he make they pass through the narrow doorway like piece of cloth , and when they be all outside restore they to they former condition . he at once mount he horse and lay hold of the halter of one of the other horse , and then beckon to the prince to do likewise , he ride off . the prince see he opportunity , and in a moment be ride after he , have the woman behind he . now the robber hear the gallop of the horse , and run out and shoot they arrow at the prince and he companion . and one of the arrow kill the woman , so they have to leave she behind . on , on they ride , until they reach a village where they stay the night . the following morning they be off again , and ask for Ivory City from every passer-by . at length they come to this famous city , and put up at a little hut that belong to a old woman , from whom they fear no harm , and with whom , therefore , they could abide in peace and comfort . at first the old woman do not like the idea of these traveller stay in she house , but the sight of a muhr , which the prince drop in the bottom of a cup in which she have give he water , and a present of another muhr from the vizier 's son , quickly make she change she mind . she agree to let they stay there for a few day . as soon as she work be over the old woman come and sit down with she lodger . the vizier 's son pretend to be utterly ignorant of the place and people . `` have this city a name ? '' he ask the old woman . `` of course it have , you stupid . every little village , much more a city , and such a city as this , have a name . '' `` what be the name of this city ? '' `` Ivory City . do not you know that ? I think the name be know all over the world . '' on the mention of the name Ivory City the prince give a deep sigh . the vizier 's son look as much as to say `` keep quiet , or you 'll discover the secret . '' `` be there a king of this country ? '' continue the vizier 's son . `` of course there be , and a queen , and a princess . '' `` what be they name ? '' `` the name of the princess be Gulizar , and the name of the queen -- '' the vizier 's son interrupt the old woman by turn to look at the prince , who be stare like a madman . `` yes , '' he say to he afterwards , `` we be in the right country . we shall see the beautiful princess . '' one morning the two traveller notice the old woman 's most careful toilette : how careful she be in the arrangement of she hair and the set of she kasabah and put . `` who be come ? '' say the vizier 's son . `` nobody , '' the old woman reply . `` then where be you go ? '' `` I be go to see my daughter , who be a servant of the Princess Gulizar . I see she and the princess every day . I should have go yesterday , if you have not be here and take up all my time . '' `` ah-h-h ! be careful not to say anything about we in the hearing of the princess . '' the vizier 's son ask she not to speak about they at the palace , hope that , because she have be tell not to do so , she would mention they arrival , and thus the princess would be inform of they come . on see she mother the girl pretend to be very angry . `` why have you not be for two day ? '' she ask . `` because , my dear , '' the old woman answer , `` two young traveller , a prince and the son of some great vizier , have take up they abode in my hut , and demand so much of my attention . it be nothing but cooking and cleaning , and cleaning and cooking , all day long . I can not understand the man , '' she add ; `` one of they especially appear very stupid . he ask I the name of this country and the name of the king . now where can these man have come from , that they do not know these thing ? however , they be very great and very rich . they each give I a muhr every morning and every evening . '' after this the old woman go and repeat almost the same word to the princess , on the hearing of which the princess beat she severely ; and threaten she with a severer punishment if she ever again speak of the stranger before she . in the evening , when the old woman have return to she hut , she tell the vizier 's son how sorry she be that she could not help break she promise , and how the princess have strike she because she mention they coming and all about they . `` Alas ! alas ! '' say the prince , who have eagerly listen to every word . `` what , then , will be she anger at the sight of a man ? '' `` anger ? '' say the vizier 's son , with a astonished air . `` she would be exceedingly glad to see one man . I know this . in this treatment of the old woman I see she request that you will go and see she during the come dark fortnight . '' `` Heaven be praise ! '' the prince exclaim . the next time the old woman go to the palace Gulizar call one of she servant and order she to rush into the room while she be converse with the old woman ; and if the old woman ask what be the matter , she be to say that the king 's elephant have go mad , and be rush about the city and bazaar in every direction , and destroy everything in they way . the servant obeyed , and the old woman , fear lest the elephant should go and push down she hut and kill the prince and he friend , beg the princess to let she depart . now Gulizar have obtain a charmed swing , that land whoever sit on it at the place wherever they wish to be . `` get the swing , '' she say to one of the servant standing by . when it be bring she bid the old woman step into it and desire to be at home . the old woman do so , and be at once carry through the air quickly and safely to she hut , where she find she two lodger safe and sound . `` oh ! '' she cry , `` I think that both of you would be kill by this time . the royal elephant have get loose and be run about wildly . when I hear this I be anxious about you . so the princess give I this charm swing to return in . but come , let we get outside before the elephant arrive and batter down the place . '' `` do not believe this , '' say the vizier 's son . `` it be a mere hoax . they have be play trick with you . '' `` you will soon have you heart 's desire , '' he whisper aside to the prince . `` these thing be sign . '' two day of the dark fortnight have elapse , when the prince and the vizier 's son seat themselves in the swing , and wish themselves within the grounds of the palace . in a moment they be there , and there too be the object of they search standing by one of the palace gate , and longing to see the prince quite as much as he be longing to see she . oh , what a happy meeting it be ! `` at last , '' say Gulizar , `` I have see my beloved , my husband . '' `` a thousand thanks to Heaven for bring I to you , '' say the prince . then the prince and Gulizar betroth themselves to one another and part , the one for the hut and the other for the palace , both of they feel happier than they have ever be before . Henceforth the prince visit Gulizar every day and return to the hut every night . one morning Gulizar beg he to stay with she always . she be constantly afraid of some evil happen to he -- perhaps robber would slay he , or sickness attack he , and then she would be deprive of he . she could not live without see he . the prince show she that there be no real cause for fear , and say that he feel he ought to return to he friend at night , because he have leave he home and country and risk he life for he ; and , moreover , if it have not be for he friend 's help he would never have meet with she . Gulizar for the time assent , but she determine in she heart to get rid of the vizier 's son as soon as possible . a few day after this conversation she order one of she maid to make a pilaw . she give special direction that a certain poison be to be mix into it while cooking , and as soon as it be ready the cover be to be place on the saucepan , so that the poisonous steam might not escape . when the pilaw be ready she send it at once by the hand of a servant to the vizier 's son with this message `` Gulizar , the princess , send you a offering in the name of she dead uncle . '' on receive the present the vizier 's son think that the prince have speak gratefully of he to the princess , and therefore she have thus remember he . accordingly he send back he salam and expression of thankfulness . when it be dinner-time he take the saucepan of pilaw and go out to eat it by the stream . take off the lid , he throw it aside on the grass and then wash he hand . during the minute or so that he be perform these ablutions , the green grass under the cover of the saucepan turn quite yellow . he be astonish , and suspect that there be poison in the pilaw , he take a little and throw it to some crow that be hop about . the moment the crow eat what be throw to they they fall down dead . `` Heaven be praise , '' exclaim the vizier 's son , `` who have preserve I from death at this time ! '' on the return of the prince that evening the vizier 's son be very reticent and depressed . the prince notice this change in he , and ask what be the reason . `` be it because I be away so much at the palace ? '' the vizier 's son see that the prince have nothing to do with the send of the pilaw , and therefore tell he everything . `` look here , '' he say , `` in this handkerchief be some pilaw that the princess send I this morning in the name of she deceased uncle . it be saturate with poison . thank Heaven , I discover it in time ! '' `` oh , brother ! who could have do this thing ? who be there that entertain enmity against you ? '' `` the Princess Gulizar . listen . the next time you go to see she , I entreat you to take some snow with you ; and just before see the princess put a little of it into both you eye . it will provoke tear , and Gulizar will ask you why you be cry . tell she that you weep for the loss of you friend , who die suddenly this morning . look ! take , too , this wine and this shovel , and when you have feign intense grief at the death of you friend , bid the princess to drink a little of the wine . it be strong , and will immediately send she into a deep sleep . then , while she be asleep , heat the shovel and mark she back with it . remember to bring back the shovel again , and also to take she pearl necklace . this do , return . now fear not to execute these instruction , because on the fulfilment of they depend you fortune and happiness . I will arrange that you marriage with the princess shall be accept by the king , she father , and all the court . '' the prince promise that he would do everything as the vizier 's son have advise he ; and he keep he promise . the following night , on the return of the prince from he visit to Gulizar , he and the vizier 's son , take the horse and bag of muhr , go to a graveyard about a mile or so distant . it be arrange that the vizier 's son should act the part of a fakir and the prince the part of the fakir 's disciple and servant . in the morning , when Gulizar have return to she sens , she feel a smart pain in she back , and notice that she pearl necklace be go . she go at once and inform the king of the loss of she necklace , but say nothing to he about the pain in she back . the king be very angry when he hear of the theft , and cause proclamation concern it to be make throughout all the city and surround country . `` it be well , '' say the vizier 's son , when he hear of this proclamation . `` fear not , my brother , but go and take this necklace , and try to sell it in the bazaar . '' the prince take it to a goldsmith and ask he to buy it . `` how much do you want for it ? '' ask the man . `` fifty thousand rupee , '' the prince reply . `` all right , '' say the man ; `` wait here while I go and fetch the money . '' the prince wait and wait , till at last the goldsmith return , and with he the kotwal , who at once take the prince into custody on the charge of steal the princess 's necklace . `` how do you get the necklace ? '' the kotwal ask . `` a fakir , whose servant I be , give it to I to sell in the bazaar , '' the prince reply . `` permit I , and I will show you where he be . '' the prince direct the kotwal and the policeman to the place where he have leave the vizier 's son , and there they find the fakir with he eye shut and engage in prayer . presently , when he have finish he devotions , the kotwal ask he to explain how he have obtain possession of the princess 's necklace . `` call the king hither , '' he reply , `` and then I will tell he Majesty face to face . '' on this some man go to the king and tell he what the fakir have say . he Majesty come , and see the fakir so solemn and earnest in he devotions , he be afraid to rouse he anger , lest peradventure the displeasure of Heaven should descend on he , and so he place he hand together in the attitude of a supplicant , and ask , `` how do you get my daughter 's necklace ? '' `` last night , '' reply the fakir , `` we be sit here by this tomb worship Khuda , when a ghoul , dress as a princess , come and exhume a body that have be bury a few day ago , and begin to eat it . on see this I be fill with anger , and beat she back with a shovel , which lay on the fire at the time . while run away from I she necklace get loose and drop . you wonder at these word , but they be not difficult to prove . examine you daughter , and you will find the mark of the burn on she back . Go , and if it be as I say , send the princess to I , and I will punish she . '' the king go back to the palace , and at once order the princess 's back to be examine . `` it be so , '' say the maid-servant ; `` the burn be there . '' `` then let the girl be slay immediately , '' the king shout . `` no , no , you Majesty , '' they reply . `` let we send she to the fakir who discover this thing , that he may do whatever he wish with she . '' the king agree , and so the princess be take to the graveyard . `` let she be shut up in a cage , and be keep near the grave whence she take out the corpse , '' say the fakir . this be do , and in a little while the fakir and he disciple and the princess be leave alone in the graveyard . Night have not long cast its dark mantle over the scene when the fakir and he disciple throw off they disguise , and take they horse and luggage , appear before the cage . they release the princess , rub some ointment over the scar on she back , and then sit she upon one of they horse behind the prince . away they ride fast and far , and by the morning be able to rest and talk over they plan in safety . the vizier 's son show the princess some of the poison pilaw that she have send he , and ask whether she have repent of she ingratitude . the princess weep , and acknowledge that he be she greatest helper and friend . a letter be send to the chief vizier tell he of all that have happen to the prince and the vizier 's son since they have leave they country . when the vizier read the letter he go and inform the king . the king cause a reply to be send to the two exile , in which he order they not to return , but to send a letter to Gulizar 's father , and inform he of everything . accordingly they do this ; the prince write the letter at the vizier 's son 's dictation . on read the letter Gulizar 's father be much enrage with he vizier and other official for not discover the presence in he country of these illustrious visitor , as he be especially anxious to ingratiate himself in the favor of the prince and the vizier 's son . he order the execution of some of the vizier on a certain date . `` come , '' he write back to the vizier 's son , `` and stay at the palace . and if the prince desire it , I will arrange for he marriage with Gulizar as soon as possible . '' the prince and the vizier 's son most gladly accept the invitation , and receive a right noble welcome from the king . the marriage soon take place , and then after a few week the king give they present of horse and elephant , and jewel and rich cloth , and bid they start for they own land ; for he be sure that the king would now receive they . the night before they leave the vizier and other , whom the king intend to have execute as soon as he visitor have leave , come and beseech the vizier 's son to plead for they , and promise that they each would give he a daughter in marriage . he agree to do so , and succeed in obtain they pardon . then the prince , with he beautiful bride Gulizar , and the vizier 's son , attend by a troop of soldier , and a large number of camel and horse bear very much treasure , leave for they own land . in the midst of the way they pass the tower of the robber , and with the help of the soldier they raze it to the ground , slew all its inmate , and seize the treasure which they have be amass there for several year . at length they reach they own country , and when the king see he son 's beautiful wife and he magnificent retinue he be at once reconcile , and order he to enter the city and take up he abode there . Henceforth all be sunshine on the path of the prince . he become a great favorite , and in due time succeed to the throne , and rule the country for many , many year in peace and happiness .