the MAGICK CUP La Fontain the worst of ill , with jealousy compare , be trifle torment ev ` ry where declare . IMAGINE , to yourself a silly fool , to dark suspicion grow a easy tool ; no soft repose he find , by night or day ; but ring he ear , he be wretch ev ` ry way ! continually he dream he forehead sprout ; the truth of reverie he never doubt . but this I would not fully guaranty , for he who dream , ` ti say , asleep should be ; and those who have catch , from time to time , a peep , pretend to say -- the jealous never sleep . a MAN who have suspicion soon will rouse ; but buz a fly around he precious spouse , at once he fancy cuckoldom be bring , and nothing can eradicate the thought ; in spite of reason he must have a place , and number be , among the horn race ; a cuckold to himself he freely own , though otherwise perhaps in flesh and bone . good folk , of cuckoldom , pray what be the harm , to give , from time to time , such dire alarm ? what injury 's receive , and what be the wrong , at which so many sneer and loll they tongue ? while unacquainted with the fact , ` tis naught ; if know : -- e ` en then ` tis scarcely worth a thought . you think , however , ` tis a serious grief ; then try to doubt it , which may bring relief , and do not resemble he who take a sup , from out the celebrated magick cup . be warn by other ' ill ; the tale I 'll tell ; perhaps you irksomeness it may dispel . BUT first , by reason let I prove , I pray , that evil such as this , and which you say , Oft weigh you down with soul-corroding care ; be only in the mind : -- mere spright of air : you hat upon you head for instance place , less gently rather than 's you usual case ; Pray , do not it presently at ease remain ? and from it do you aught amiss retain ? not e ` en a spot ; there be nothing half so clear ; the feature , too , they as before appear ? no difference assuredly you see ? then how can cuckoldom a evil be ? such my conclusion , spite of fool or brute , with whose idea reason never suit . YES , yes , but honor have , you know , a claim : who e ` er deny it ? -- never 'twa my aim . but what of honor ? -- nothing else be hear ; at Rome a different conduct be prefer ; the cuckold there , who take the thing to heart , be think a fool , and act a blockhead 's part ; while he , who laugh , be always well receive and honest fellow through the town believe . be this misfortune view with proper eye , such ill from cuckoldom would ne'er arise . that advantageous ` tis , we now will prove : folk laugh ; you wife a pliant glove shall move ; but , if you have twenty favorite around , a single syllable will ne'er resound . Whene'er you speak , each word have double force ; at table , you have precedency of course , and oft will get the very nicest part ; well pleased who serve you ! -- all the household smart no means neglect you favor to obtain ; you have full command ; resistance would be vain . whence this conclusion must directly spring : to be a cuckold be a useful thing . AT card , should adverse fortune you pursue ; to take revenge be ever think you due ; and you opponent often will revoke , that you for better luck may have a cloak : if you have a friend o ` er head and ear in debt : at once , to help he number you can get . you fancy these you rind regale and cheer she be better for it ; more beautiful appear ; the spartan king , in Helen find new charm , when he would recover she from Paris ' arm . your wife the same ; to make she , in you eye , more beautiful 's the aim you may rely ; for , if unkind , she would a hag be think , incapable soft love scene to be teach . these reason make I to my thesis cling , -- to be a cuckold be a useful thing . if much too long this introduction seem , the obvious cause be clearly in the theme , and should not certainly be hurry o ` er , but now for something from th ' historick store . a CERTAIN man , no matter for he name , he country , rank , nor residence nor fame , through fear of accident have firmly swear , the marriage chain should ne'er by he be worn ; no tie but friendship , from the sex he would crave : if wrong or right , the question we will wave . be this as ` t will , since Hymen could not find we wight to bear the wed knot incline , the god of love , to manage for he try , and what he wish , from time to time supply ; a lively fair he get , who charm display , and make he father to a little maid ; then die , and leave the spark dissolve in tear : not such as flow for wife , -lrb-B- as oft appear -rrb-B- when mourn 's nothing more than change of dress : he anguish speak the soul in great distress . the daughter grow in year , improve in mien , and soon the woman in she air be see ; Time roll apace , and once she be ridded of she bib , then alter daily , and she tongue get glib , each year still taller , till she be find at length ; a perfect belle in look , in age , in strength . he forward child , the father justly fear , would cheat the priest of fee so much revere ; the lawyer too , and god of marriage-joys ; sad fault , that future prospects oft destroy : to trust she virtue be not quite so sure ; he choose a convent , to be more secure , where this young charmer learn to pray and sew ; no wicked book , unfit for girl to know , Corruption 's page the sens to beguile Dan Cupid never write in convent style : of nothing would she talk but holy-writ ; on which she could herself so well acquit , that oft the gravest teacher be confuse ; to praise she beauty , scarcely be excuse ; no flatt ` ry pleasure give , and she would reply : good sister stay ! -- consider , we must die ; each feature perish : -- ` tis naught but clay ; and soon will worm upon we body prey : Superior needle-work we fair could do ; the spindle turn at ease : -- embroider too ; Minerva 's skill , or Clotho 's , could impart ; in tapestry she have gain Arachne 's art ; and other talent , too , the daughter show ; she sense , wealth , beauty , soon be spread abroad : but most she wealth a marked attention draw ; the belle have be immure with prudent view , to keep she safely till a spouse be find , who with sufficient riches should abound . from convent , heiress be often lead directly to the altar to be wed. . SOME time the father have the girl declare he lawful child , who all he fondness share . as soon as she be free from convent wall , she taste at once be change from book to ball ; around Calista -lrb-B- such be name we fair -rrb-B- a host of lover show attentive care ; Cits , courtier , officer , the beau , the sage , Adventurers of ev ` ry rank and age . from these Calista presently make choice , of one for whom she father give he voice ; a handsome lad , and think good humored too few otherwise appear when first they woo . she fortune ample be ; the dow ` r the same ; the belle a only child ; the like she flame . but better still , we couple 's chief delight , be mutual love and pleasure to excite . two year in paradise thus pass the pair , when bliss be change to Hell 's worst cank ` ring care ; a fit of jealousy the husband grieve , and , strange to tell , he all at once believe , a lover with success he wife address , when , but for he , the suit have ne'er be press ; for though the spark , the charming fair to gain , would ev ` ry wily method try , 'twa plain , yet have the husband never terror show , the lover , in despair , have quickly fly . what should a husband do whose wife be seek , with anxious fondness by another ? Naught . ` tis this that lead I ever to advise , to sleep at ease whichever side he lie . in case she lend the spark a willing ear , ` Twill not be better if you interfere : she 'll seek more opportunity you 'll find ; but if to pay attention she be inclined , you 'll raise the inclination in she brain , and then the danger will begin again . where ` ER suspicion dwell you may be sure , to cuckoldom ` twill prove a place secure . but Damon -lrb-B- such the husband 's name -rrb-B- , ` tis clear , Thought otherwise , as we shall make appear . he merit pity , and should be excuse , since he , by bad advice , be much abused ; when have he trust to himself to guide , he have act wisely , ' -- hear and you 'll decide . the Enchantress Neria flourish in those day ; E ` en Circe , she excel in Satan 's way ; the storm she make obedient to she will , and regulate with superior skill ; in chain the destiny she keep around ; the gentle zephyr be she sage find ; the wind , she lacquey , fly with rapid course ; Alert , but obstinate , with pow ` rful force . with all she art th ' enchantress could not find , a charm to guard she ` gainst the urchin blind ; though she have the pow ` r to stop the star of day , she burn to gain a be form of clay . if merely a salute she wish have be , she might have have it , easily be see ; but bliss unbounded clearly be she view , and this with anxious ardor she would pursue . though charm she have , still Damon would remain , to she who have he heart a faithful swain : in vain she seek the genial soft caress : to Neria naught but friendship he would express . like Damon , husband nowhere now be find , and I be not certain , such be e ` er on ground . I rather fancy , hist ` ry be not here , what we would wish , since truth it do not revere , I nothing in the hippogriff perceive , or lance enchant , but we may believe ; yet this I must confess have raise surprise , Howe'er , to pass it will perhaps suffice ; I have many pass the same , -- in ancient day ; man different be from we : have other way ; unlike the present manners , we 'll suppose ; or history would other fact disclose . the be ` rous Neria to obtain she end , make use of philter , and would e ` en descend ; to ev ` ry wily look and secret art , that could to he she love she flame impart . we swain he marriage vow to this oppose ; at which th ' enchantress much surprise disclose . you doubtless fancy , she exclaim one day , that you fidelity must worth display ; but I should like to know if equal care , Calista take to act upon the square . suppose you wife have get a smart gallant , would you refuse as much a fair to grant ? and if Calista , careless of you fame , should carry to extreme a guilty flame , would you but half way go ? I truly think , by sturdy hymen thus you would not be catch . Domestick joy should be to cit confine ; for none but such be scene like those design . BUT as to you : -- decline Love 's choice pursuit ! no anxious wish to taste forbid fruit ? though such you banish from you thought I see , a friend thereto I fain would have you be . come make the trial : you 'll calista find , quite new again when to she arm resign . but let I tell you , though you wife be chaste , Erastus to you mansion oft be trace . and do you think , cry Damon with a air , Erastus visit as a lover there ? too much he seem , my friend , to act a part , that prove the villain both in head and heart . say Neria , mortify at this reply , though he be a friend on whom you may rely , Calista beauty have ; much worth the man , with smart address to execute he plan ; and when we meet accomplishment so rare ; few woman but will tumble in the snare . this conversation be by Damon feel , a wife , brisk , young , and form ` mid joy to melt ; a man well verse in Cupid 's wily way ; no courtier bolder of the present day ; Well make and handsome , with attractive mind ; Wo what might happen be the husband blind ? whoever trust implicitly to friend , too oft will find , on shadow he depend . pray where 's the devotee , who could withstand , the tempting glimpse of charm that all command ; which first invite by half : then bolder grow , till fascination spread , and bosom glow ? we Damon fancy this already do , or , at the best , might be too soon begin : on these foundation gloomy view arise , ChimerasS dire , destructive of repose . TH ' enchantress presently a hint receive , that those suspicion much the husband grieve ; and better to succeed and make he fret , she tell he of a thing , ` mong witch meet , 'Twas metamorphose-water -lrb-B- such the name -rrb-B- with this could damon take Erastus ' frame ; he gait , he look , he carriage , air and voice thus change , he easily could mark she choice , each step observe : -- enough , he ask no more , Erastus ' shape the husband quickly bear ; he easy manner , and appearance catch : with captivate smile he wife he seek . and thus address the fair with ev ` ry grace : -- how blithe that look ! enchant be you face ; you beauty 's always great , I need must say , but never more delightful than to-day . CALISTA see the flatt ` ring lover 's scheme ; and turn to ridicule the wily theme . he manner Damon change , from gay to grave : now sigh , then tear ; but nothing could enslave ; the lady , virtue firmly would maintain ; at length , the husband , see all be vain , propose a bribe , and offer such a sum , she anger dropt : the belle be overcome . the price be very large , it might excuse , though she at first be prompt to refuse ; at last , howe'er she chastity give way : to gold 's allurement few will offer nay ! the cash , resistance have so fully lay , surrender would at any time be make . the precious ore have universal charm , enchain the will , or set the world in arm ! though elegant you form , and smart you dress , you air , you language , ev ` ry warmth express yet , if a banker , or a financier , with handsome present happen to appear , at once be bless the wealthy paramor , while you a year may languish at the door . THIS heart , inflexible , it seem , give ground , to money 's pow ` rful , all-subduing sound ; the rock now disappear -- and , in its stead , a lamb be find , quite easy to be lead , who , as a proof , resistance she would wave , a kiss , by way of earnest freely give . no further would the husband push the dame , nor be himself a witness of he shame , but straight resume he form , and to he wife , Cried , O Calista ! once my soul and life Calista , whom I fondly cherish long ; Calista , whose affection be so strong ; be gold more dear than heart in union twine ? to wash thy guilt , thy blood should be assign . but still I love thee , spite of evil thought ; my death will pay the ill thou ` st on I bring . the metamorphosis we dame surprise ; to give relief she tear but just suffice ; she scarcely speak ; the husband , day remain , reflect on the circumstance that pained . himself a cuckold could he ever make , by mere design a liberty to take ? but , horn or not ? the question seem to be , when Neria tell he , if from doubt not free , drink from the cup : -- with so much art ` tis make , that , whose'er of cuckoldom 's afraid , let he but put it to he eager lip if he be a cuckold , out the liquor slip ; he naught can swallow ; and the whole be throw about he face or clothes , as oft 's be show . but should , from out he brow , no horn yet pop -- he drink the whole , nor spill a single drop . the doubt to solve , we husband take a sup , from this famed , formidably , magick cup ; nor do he any of the liquor waste : -- well , I be safe , say he , my wife be chaste , though on myself it wholly could depend ; but from it what have I to apprehend ? Make room , good folk , who leafless branch wear ; if you desire those honor I should share . thus Damon speak , and to he precious wife a curious sermon preach , it seem , on life . if cuckoldom , my friend , such torment give ; ` tis better far ` mong savage to live ! lest worse should happen , Damon settle spy , who , o ` er he lady watch with Argus ' eye . she turn coquette ; restraint the FAIR awake , and only prompt more liberty to take . the silly husband secret try to know , and rather seem to seek the wily foe , which fear have often render fatal round , when otherwise the ill have ne'er be find . four time a hour he lip to sip he place ; and clearly , for a week be not disgrace . Howe'er , no further go he ease of mind ; oh , fatal science ! fatally design ! with fury Damon throw the cup away , and , in he rage , himself incline to slay . he wife he straight shut up within a tower , where , morn and night , he show a husband 's pow ` r , Reproach bestow : while she bewail she lot , ` twere better far , if he would conceal the blot ; for now , from mouth to mouth , and ear to ear , it echo , and re-echoed far and near . MEANWHILE Calista lead a wretched life ; no gold nor jewel Damon leave he wife , which make the jailer faithful , since ` twere vain to hope , unbribed , this Cerberus to gain . AT length , the wife a lucky moment seek , when Damon seem by soft caress catch . Said she , I have guilty be , I freely own ; but though my crime be great , I be not alone ; Alas ! how few escape from like mishap ; ` Mong Hymen 's band so common be the trap ; and though at you the immaculate may smile , what use to fret and all the sex revile ? well I 'll console myself , and pardon you , Cried Damon , when sufficient I can view , of ornamented forehead , just like mine , to form among themselves a royal line ; ` ti only to employ the magick cup , from which I learn you secret by a sup . he plan to execute , the husband go , and ev ` ry passenger be thither send , where Damon entertain , with sumptuous fare ; and , at the end , propose the magick snare : Said he , my wife play truant to my bed ; Wish you to know if you 's be e ` er mislead ? ` tis right how thing go on at home to trace , and if upon the cup you lip you place , in case you wife be chaste , there 'll naught go wrong ; but , if to Vulcan 's troop you should belong , and prove a antlered brother , you will spill the liquor ev ` ry way , in spite of skill . to all the man , that Damon could collect , the cup he offer , and they try th ' effect ; but few escape , at which they laugh or cry , as feeling lead , or cuckoldom they spy , Whose surly countenance the wag believe , in many house near , might be perceive . ALREADY Damon have sufficient find , to form a regiment and march around ; at time they threaten governor to hang , unless they would surrender to they gang ; but few they want to complete the force , and soon a royal army make of course . from day to day they number would augment , without the beat of drum , to great extent ; they rank be always fix by length of horn : Foot soldier those , whose branch short be bear ; Dragoons , lieutenant , captain , some become , and even colonel , those of greater fame . the portion spill by each from out the vase be take for the length , and fix the place . a wight , who in a instant spill the whole , be make a gen ` ral : not commander sole , for many followed of the same degree , and 'twa determine they should equal be . the rank and file now nearly find complete , and full enough a enemy to beat , Young Reynold , nephew of famed Charlemain , by chance come by : the spark they try to gain , and , after treat he with sumptuous cheer , at length the magick cup ma make appear ; but no way Reynold could be lead to drink : my wife , cry he , I truly faithful think , and that be enough ; the cup can nothing more ; should I , who sleep with two eye , sleep with four ? I feel at ease , thank heav ` n , and have no dread , then why to seek new care should I be lead ? perhaps , if I the cup should hold awry , the liquor out might on a sudden fly ; I be sometimes awkward , and in case the cup should fancy I another , who would sup , the error , doubtless , might unpleasant be : to any thing but this I will agree , to give you pleasure , Damon , so adieu ; then reynold from the antlered corps withdraw . say Damon , gentleman , ` tis pretty clear , so wise as Reynold , none of we appear ; but let 's console ourselves ; -- ` tis very plain , the same be other : -- to repine be vain . AT length , such number on they roll they bear ; Calista liberty obtain once more , as promise formerly , and then she charm again be take to she spouse 's arm . LET Reynold 's conduct , husband , be you line ; who Damon 's follow surely will repine . perhaps the first should have be make the chief ; Though , doubtless , that be matter of belief . no mortal can from danger feel secure ; to be exempt from spilling , who be sure ? nor Roland , Reynold , nor famed Charlemain , but what have act wrong to risk the stain .