115 the Bright Sun BringsS it to Light BrothersS Grimm A tailor 's apprentice be travel about the world in search of work , and at one time he could find none , and he poverty be so great that he have not a farthing to live on . presently he meet a Jew on the road , and as he think he would have a great deal of money about he , the tailor thrust God out of he heart , fall on the Jew , and say , `` give I thy money , or I will strike thee dead . '' then say the Jew , `` Grant I my life , I have no money but eight farthing . '' but the tailor say , `` money thou hast ; and it shall be produce , '' and use violence and beat he until he be near death . and when the Jew be die , the last word he say be , `` the bright sun will bring it to light , '' and thereupon he die . the tailor 's apprentice feel in he pocket and seek for money , but he find nothing but eight farthing , as the Jew have say . then he take he up and carry he behind a clump of tree , and go onward to seek work . after he have travel about a long while , he get work in a town with a master who have a pretty daughter , with whom he fall in love , and he marry she , and live in good and happy wedlock . after a long time when he and he wife have two child , the wife 's father and mother die , and the young people keep house alone . one morning , when the husband be sit on the table before the window , he wife bring he he coffee , and when he have pour it out into the saucer , and be just go to drink , the sun shone on it and the reflection gleam hither and thither on the wall above , and make circle on it . then the tailor look up and say , `` yes , it would like very much to bring it to light , and can not ! '' the woman say , `` oh , dear husband , and what be that , then ? '' `` what dost thou mean by that ? '' he answer , `` I must not tell thee . '' but she say , `` if thou lovest I , thou must tell I , '' and use she most affectionate word , and say that no one should ever know it , and leave he no rest . then he tell she how year ago , when he be travel about seek work and quite worn out and penniless , he have kill a Jew , and that in the last agony of death , the Jew have speak the word , `` the bright sun will bring it to light . '' and now , the sun have just want to bring it to light , and have gleam and make circle on the wall , but have not be able to do it . after this , he again charge she particularly never to tell this , or he would lose he life , and she do promise . when however , he have sit down to work again , she go to she great friend and confide the story to she , but she be never to repeat it to any human being , but before two day be over , the whole town know it , and the tailor be bring to trial , and condemn . and thus , after all , the bright sun do bring it to light .