the tale of MR. JEREMY FISHER Beatrix Potter once upon a time there be a frog call Mr. Jeremy Fisher ; he live in a little damp house amongst the buttercup at the edge of a pond . the water be all slippy - sloppy in the larder and in the back passage . but Mr. Jeremy like get he foot wet ; nobody ever scold he , and he never catch a cold ! he be quite pleased when he look out and see large drop of rain , splash in the pond -- `` I will get some worm and go fishing and catch a dish of minnow for my dinner , '' say Mr. Jeremy Fisher . `` if I catch more than five fish , I will invite my friend Mr. Alderman Ptolemy Tortoise and Sir Isaac Newton . the Alderman , however , eat salad . '' MR. JEREMY put on a macintosh , and a pair of shiny golosh ; he take he rod and basket , and set off with enormous hop to the place where he keep he boat . the boat be round and green , and very like the other lily-leaves . it be tie to a water-plant in the middle of the pond . MR. JEREMY take a reed pole , and push the boat out into open water . `` I know a good place for minnow , '' say Mr. Jeremy Fisher . MR. JEREMY stick he pole into the mud and fasten he boat to it . then he settle himself cross-legged and arrange he fishing tackle . he have the dearest little red float . he rod be a tough stalk of grass , he line be a fine long white horse-hair , and he tie a little wriggle worm at the end . the rain trickle down he back , and for nearly a hour he stare at the float . `` this be get tiresome , I think I should like some lunch , '' say Mr. Jeremy Fisher . he punt back again amongst the water - plant , and take some lunch out of he basket . `` I will eat a butterfly sandwich , and wait till the shower be over , '' say Mr. Jeremy Fisher . a great big water-beetle come up underneath the lily leaf and tweak the toe of one of he golosh . Mr. Jeremy cross he leg up shorter , out of reach , and go on eat he sandwich . once or twice something move about with a rustle and a splash amongst the rush at the side of the pond . `` I trust that be not a rat , '' say Mr. Jeremy Fisher ; `` I think I have better get away from here . '' MR. JEREMY shove the boat out again a little way , and drop in the bait . there be a bite almost directly ; the float give a tremendous bobbit ! `` a minnow ! a minnow ! I have he by the nose ! '' cry Mr. Jeremy Fisher , jerk up he rod . BUT what a horrible surprise ! instead of a smooth fat minnow , Mr. Jeremy land little Jack Sharp the stickleback , cover with spine ! the stickleback flounder about the boat , prick and snap until he be quite out of breath . then he jump back into the water . and a shoal of other little fish put they head out , and laugh at Mr. Jeremy Fisher . and while Mr. Jeremy sit disconsolately on the edge of he boat -- suck he sore finger and peer down into the water -- a MUCH worse thing happen ; a really frightful thing it would have be , if Mr. Jeremy have not be wear a macintosh ! a great big enormous trout come up -- ker - pflop-p-p-p ! with a splash -- and it seize Mr. Jeremy with a snap , `` ow ! ow ! ow ! '' -- and then it turn and dive down to the bottom of the pond ! BUT the trout be so displeased with the taste of the macintosh , that in less than half a minute it spit he out again ; and the only thing it swallow be Mr. Jeremy 's golosh . MR. JEREMY bounce up to the surface of the water , like a cork and the bubble out of a soda water bottle ; and he swim with all he might to the edge of the pond . he scramble out on the first bank he come to , and he hop home across the meadow with he macintosh all in tatters . `` what a mercy that be not a pike ! '' say Mr. Jeremy Fisher . `` I have lose my rod and basket ; but it do not much matter , for I be sure I should never have dare to go fishing again ! '' he put some sticking plaster on he finger , and he friend both come to dinner . he could not offer they fish , but he have something else in he larder . SIR ISAAC NEWTON wear he black and gold waistcoat , and Mr. Alderman Ptolemy Tortoise bring a salad with he in a string bag . and instead of a nice dish of minnow -- they have a roasted grasshopper with lady-bird sauce ; which frog consider a beautiful treat ; but _ I _ think it must have be nasty ! the end