181 the nix of the Mill-Pond BrothersS Grimm there be once upon a time a miller who live with he wife in great contentment . they have money and land , and they prosperity increase year by year more and more . but ill-luck come like a thief in the night , as they wealth have increase so do it again decrease , year by year , and at last the miller could hardly call the mill in which he live , he own . he be in great distress , and when he lay down after he day 's work , find no rest , but toss about in he bed , full of care . one morning he rise before daybreak and go out into the open air , think that perhaps there he heart might become lighter . as he be step over the mill - dam the first sunbeam be just break forth , and he hear a ripple sound in the pond . he turn round and perceive a beautiful woman , rise slowly out of the water . she long hair , which she be hold off she shoulder with she soft hand , fall down on both side , and cover she white body . he soon see that she be the Nix of the mill-pond , and in he fright do not know whether he should run away or stay where he be . but the nix make she sweet voice hear , call he by he name , and ask he why he be so sad ? the miller be at first strike dumb , but when he hear she speak so kindly , he take heart , and tell she how he have formerly live in wealth and happiness , but that now he be so poor that he do not know what to do . `` be easy , '' answer the nix , `` I will make thee richer and happier than thou hast ever be before , only thou must promise to give I the young thing which have just be bear in thy house . '' `` what else can that be , '' think the miller , `` but a young puppy or kitten ? '' and he promise she what she desire . the nix descend into the water again , and he hurry back to he mill , console and in good spirit . he have not yet reach it , when the maid-servant come out of the house , and cry to he to rejoice , for he wife have give birth to a little boy . the miller stand as if strike by lightning ; he see very well that the cunning nix have be aware of it , and have cheat he . hang he head , he go up to he wife 's bedside and when she say , `` why dost thou not rejoice over the fine boy ? '' he tell she what have befall he , and what kind of a promise he have give to the nix . `` of what use to I be riches and prosperity ? '' he add , `` if I be to lose my child ; but what can I do ? '' even the relation , who have come thither to wish they joy , do not know what to say . in the meantime prosperity again return to the miller 's house . all that he undertake succeed , it be as if press and coffer fill themselves of they own accord , and as if money multiply nightly in the cupboard . it be not long before he wealth be greater than it have ever be before . but he could not rejoice over it untroubled , for the bargain which he have make with the nix torment he soul . Whenever he pass the mill-pond , he fear she might ascend and remind he of he debt . he never let the boy himself go near the water . `` beware , '' he say to he , `` if thou dost but touch the water , a hand will rise , seize thee , and draw thee down . '' but as year after year go by and the nix do not show herself again , the miller begin to feel at ease . the boy grow up to be a youth and be apprentice to a huntsman . when he have learn everything , and have become a excellent huntsman , the lord of the village take he into he service . in the village live a beautiful and true-hearted maiden , who please the huntsman , and when he master perceive that , he give he a little house , the two be marry , live peacefully and happily , and love each other with all they heart . one day the huntsman be chase a roe ; and when the animal turn aside from the forest into the open country , he pursue it and at last shot it . he do not notice that he be now in the neighborhood of the dangerous mill-pond , and go , after he have disembowel the stag , to the water , in order to wash he blood-stained hand . scarcely , however , have he dip they in than the nix ascend , smilingly wind she drip arm around he , and draw he quickly down under the wave , which close over he . when it be evening , and the huntsman do not return home , he wife become alarmed . she go out to seek he , and as he have often tell she that he have to be on he guard against the snare of the nix , and dare not venture into the neighborhood of the mill-pond , she already suspect what have happen . she hasten to the water , and when she find he hunting-pouch lie on the shore , she could no longer have any doubt of the misfortune . lament she sorrow , and wring she hand , she call on she beloved by name , but in vain . she hurry across to the other side of the pond , and call he anew ; she revile the nix with harsh word , but no answer follow . the surface of the water remain calm , only the crescent moon stare steadily back at she . the poor woman do not leave the pond . with hasty step , she pace round and round it , without rest a moment , sometimes in silence , sometimes utter a loud cry , sometimes softly sob . at last she strength come to a end , she sink down to the ground and fall into a heavy sleep . presently a dream take possession of she . she be anxiously climb upward between great mass of rock ; thorn and briar catch she foot , the rain beat in she face , and the wind toss she long hair about . when she have reach the summit , quite a different sight present itself to she ; the sky be blue , the air soft , the ground slope gently downwards , and on a green meadow , gay with flower of every color , stand a pretty cottage . she go up to it and open the door ; there sit a old woman with white hair , who beckon to she kindly . at that very moment , the poor woman awake , day have already dawn , and she at once resolve to act in accordance with she dream . she laboriously climb the mountain ; everything be exactly as she have see it in the night . the old woman receive she kindly , and point out a chair on which she might sit . `` Thou must have meet with a misfortune , '' she say , `` since thou hast seek out my lonely cottage . '' with tear , the woman relate what have befall she . `` be comfort , '' say the old woman , `` I will help thee . here be a golden comb for thee . Tarry till the full moon have rise , then go to the mill-pond , seat thyself on the shore , and comb thy long black hair with this comb . when thou hast do , lay it down on the bank , and thou wilt see what will happen . '' the woman return home , but the time till the full moon come , pass slowly . at last the shine disc appear in the heaven , then she go out to the mill-pond , sit down and comb she long black hair with the golden comb , and when she have finish , she lay it down at the water 's edge . it be not long before there be a movement in the depths , a wave rise , roll to the shore , and bear the comb away with it . in not more than the time necessary for the comb to sink to the bottom , the surface of the water part , and the head of the huntsman arise . he do not speak , but look at he wife with sorrowful glance . at the same instant , a second wave come rush up , and cover the man 's head . all have vanish , the mill-pond lay peaceful as before , and nothing but the face of the full moon shone on it . Full of sorrow , the woman go back , but again the dream show she the cottage of the old woman . next morning she again set out and complain of she woe to the wise woman . the old woman give she a golden flute , and say , `` Tarry till the full moon come again , then take this flute ; play a beautiful air on it , and when thou hast finish , lay it on the sand ; then thou wilt see what will happen . '' the wife do as the old woman tell she . no sooner be the flute lie on the sand than there be a stir in the depths , and a wave rush up and bear the flute away with it . immediately afterwards the water part , and not only the head of the man , but half of he body also arise . he stretch out he arm longingly towards she , but a second wave come up , cover he , and draw he down again . `` Alas , what do it profit I ? '' say the unhappy woman , `` that I should see my beloved , only to lose he again ! '' despair fill she heart anew , but the dream lead she a third time to the house of the old woman . she set out , and the wise woman give she a golden spinning-wheel , console she and say , `` all be not yet fulfil , tarry until the time of the full moon , then take the spinning-wheel , seat thyself on the shore , and spin the spool full , and when thou hast do that , place the spinning-wheel near the water , and thou wilt see what will happen . '' the woman obey all she say exactly ; as soon as the full moon show itself , she carry the golden spinning-wheel to the shore , and span industriously until the flax come to a end , and the spool be quite fill with the thread . no sooner be the wheel standing on the shore than there be a more violent movement than before in the depths of the pond , and a mighty wave rush up , and bear the wheel away with it . immediately the head and the whole body of the man rise into the air , in a water-spout . he quickly spring to the shore , catch he wife by the hand and flee . but they have scarcely go a very little distance , when the whole pond rise with a frightful roar , and stream out over the open country . the fugitive already see death before they eye , when the woman in she terror implore the help of the old woman , and in a instant they be transform , she into a toad , he into a frog . the flood which have overtake they could not destroy they , but it tear they apart and carry they far away . when the water have disperse and they both touch dry land again , they regain they human form , but neither know where the other be ; they find themselves among strange people , who do not know they native land . High mountain and deep valley lay between they . in order to keep themselves alive , they be both oblige to tend sheep . for many long year they drive they flock through field and forest and be full of sorrow and longing . when spring have once more broken forth on the earth , they both go out one day with they flock , and as chance would have it , they draw near each other . they meet in a valley , but do not recognize each other ; yet they rejoice that they be no longer so lonely . Henceforth they each day drive they flock to the same place ; they do not speak much , but they feel comfort . one evening when the full moon be shine in the sky , and the sheep be already at rest , the shepherd pull the flute out of he pocket , and play on it a beautiful but sorrowful air . when he have finish he see that the shepherdess be weep bitterly . `` why art thou weep ? '' he ask . `` Alas , '' answer she , `` thus shine the full moon when I play this air on the flute for the last time , and the head of my beloved rise out of the water . '' he look at she , and it seem as if a veil fall from he eye , and he recognize he dear wife , and when she look at he , and the moon shone in he face she know he also . they embrace and kiss each other , and no one need ask if they be happy .