the SPECTACLES La Fontain I lately vow to leave the nun alone , so oft they freak have in my page be show . the subject may at length fatigue the mind ; My Muse the veil howe'er be still incline , conspicuously to hold to publick view , and , ` mong the sister , scene and scene pursue . be this too much ? -- the nicest trick they play ; through soft amours oft artfully they stray , and these in full I would readily detail , if I be sure the subject would not fail ; and that be impossible I must admit , ` twould endless be , the tale appear so fit ; there be not a clerk so expeditious find , who could record the story know around . the sister to forget , be I to try , suspicion might arise that , by and by , I should return : some case might tempt my pen ; so oft I have overrun the convent-den , like one who always make , from time to time , the conversation with he feeling chime . but let we to a end the subject bring , and after this , of other matter sing . in former time be introduce a lad among the nun , and like a maiden clad ; a charming girl by all he be believe ; fifteen he age ; no doubt be then conceive ; Coletta be the name the youth have bring , and , till he get a beard , be sister thought . the period howsoe'er be well employ , and from it agne profit have enjoy ; what profit ? -- truly better have I say , that sister Agnes by he be mislead , and store of ill receive ; misfortune dire oblige the nun more girdle to require , and ultimately to produce -lrb-B- in spite of ev ` ry wish to guard the fact from light -rrb-B- a little creature that we hist ` rie say , be find Coletta 's feature to display . great scandal quickly through the convent run : how could this child arrive ? -- the sister ` gan to laugh and ask , if in a evil hour , the mushroom could have fall with a show ` r ? or self-created be it not suppose ? much rage the abbess presently disclose ; to have she holy mansion thus disgrace ! Forthwith the culprit be in prison place . the father to discover next they try ; how could he enter , pass , escape , or hide ; the wall be high ; the grate be double too ; quite small the turning-box appear to view , and she who manage it be very old : -- perhaps some youthful spark have be so bold , cried she who be superior to the rest , to get admit , like a maiden dress , and ` mong we flock -lrb-B- if rightly I surmise -rrb-B- a wicked wolf be lurk in disguise . undress , I say , I 'll verify the fact ; no other way remain for I to act . the lad disguise be terrify to death ; each plan be dissipate with a breath ; the more he think of means from thence to get , the greater be the obstacle he meet . at length NECESSITY -lrb-B- the parent find of stratagem and wiles , so much renowned , -rrb-B- induce the youth ... -lrb-B- I scarcely can proceed -rrb-B- to tie ... expression here I clearly need ; what word will decently express the thought ? what book have get it ? -- where should it be seek ? you have hear , in day of yore that human kind , with window in they bosom be design , through which 'twa easy all within to see , and suit those of medical degree . BUT if these window useful be believe ; 'Twas inconvenient in the heart perceive , and woman thoroughly dislike the scheme : -- they could not find the means to hide a dream . Dame Nature howsoe'er contrived a plan : -- one lace she give the woman , one the man , of equal length , and each enough no doubt , by proper care to shut the ope throughout . the woman much too thick she eyelet place ; and consequently , ne'er be closely lace ; the fault be all she own : herself the cause ; the man as little merited applause , for coarsely work , soon the hole be shut , from which the remnant lace be leave to jut ; in fact , on either side , whate'er be do , the lace never equally would run , and we be tell , both sex act wrong : the woman 's be too short ; the man 's too long . from this ` ti easy , it should seem to guess : what by the youth be tie in this distress the end of lace that by the man be leave , when nature order they to close the cleft : with thread he fasten it so very well , that all be flat as any nun or belle ; but thread or silk , you can not find a string to hold , what soon I fear will give a spring , and get away , in spite of all you do ; Bring saint or angel such a scene to view , as twenty nun in similar array , strange creature I should think they : -- merely clay , if they should at the sight unmoved remain ; I speak of nun , howe'er , whose charm maintain Superior rank , and like the GracesS seem , delightful sister ! ev ` ry way supreme . the prioress , this secret to disclose , appear with spectacles upon she nose ; and twenty nun around a dress display ; that convent mantua-makers never make , imagine to yourself what feel the youth , ` Mid this examination of the truth . the nice proportion and the lily charm soon raise within he bosom dire alarm ; like magick operate on the string , and from it , what be tie , soon give a spring ; Broke loose at once , just like a mettled steed , that , have slipt its halter , fly with speed ; against the abbess ' nose with force it fly , and spectacles from she proboscis throw . though she have nearly fall on the floor , in thus attempt secret to explore , no jest she think the accident , 'twa plain , but would with force the discipline maintain . a chapter instantly the lady hold ; long time upon the circumstance they dwell . the youthful wolf that cause the direful shock ; at length be give to the age flock , who tie he hand and bind he to a tree Face ` gainst the wood , that none he front might see ; and while the cruel troop , with rage inflame , consider of reward that vengeance frame ; while some the besom from the kitchen bring ; and other , in the convent ar ` nal seek the various instrument the sister use to punish when obedience be refuse ; another double-locked , within a room . the nun of tender heart and youthful bloom : -- by chance , a friend to sly gallant appear , and soon remove , what most we hero fear : a miller mount on he mule come by , a tight-built active lad with pierce eye ; one much admire by all the girl around ; play well at kayle : -- a good companion find . Aha ! cry he , what be here ? -- a nice affair ; Young man , pray tell I who have place thee there ? the sister , say ` st thou ? -- hast thou have thy fun , and pleased thy fancy with a wanton nun ? Art satisfy ? -- and be she pretty too ? in truth , to judge by what appear to view , Thou seemest thoroughly a wily wight , that convent belle would relish morn and night . ALAS ! reply the other with a sigh , in vain the nun my virtue seek to try ; 'Twas my misfortune : -- patience heav ` n bestow ; for world such wickedness I would not know . the miller laugh at what the other speak ; Untied he hand , and ev ` ry bandage break . Said he , thou ninny , scruple can ` st thou find to counteract , and prove to pleasure blind ? the business clearly should to I belong ; we rector ne'er have think such conduct wrong , and never would have play the fool like this ; fly , haste away , away ; I 'll thee dismiss , first have nicely set I in thy place ; like I thou wert not form for soft embrace ; I be stout and able : -- quarter ne'er will ask ; come ALL , these nun , I 'll execute the task , and many prank they 'll see , unless a freak should happen any way the string to break . the other never ask he wish twice , but tie he well , and leave he in a trice . with shoulder broad the miller you might see ; in Adam 's birth-attire against the tree , Await the come of the age band , who soon appear , with taper in the hand , in solemn guise , and whip and scourge dire : the virgin troop -lrb-B- as convent law require -rrb-B- in full procession move around the Wight ; without allow time to catch he sight , or give notice what they mean to do : how now ! cry he : -- why will not you take a view ? deceive you be ; regard I well I pray ; I be not the silly fool you have to-day , who woman hate , and scruple seek to raise : employ but I , and soon I 'll gain you praise ; I 'll wonder execute ; my strength appear ; and ; if I fail , at once cut off my ear . at certain pleasant play I be clever find ; but as to whip -- I never be renown . what mean the fellow ? cry a toothless nun ; what would he tell we ? Hast thou nothing do ? how ! -- Art thou not we brat-begetter ? -- speak ; so much the worse : -- on thee we rage we 'll wreak , for he that be go we 'll make thee suffer now ; once arm in hand , we never will allow such character full punishment to miss ; the play that we desire be THIS and THIS ; then whip and scourge round he ` gan to move , and not a little troublesome to prove the miller , writhe with the poignant smart , cried loudly : -- I 'll exert my utmost art , good lady , to perform what be you due ; the more he bawl , the faster lash fly . this work so well the age troop achieve , he long remember what he skin receive . while thus the master chastisement have get ; he mule be feed on the verdant spot . but what become of this or that , at last , I have never hear , and care not how it past . ` Tis quite enough to save the young gallant , and more particulars we do not want . my reader , for a time , could they obtain a dozen nun like these , where beauty reign , would doubtless not be see without they dress ! we do not always ev ` ry wish express .