33 the three Languages BrothersS Grimm a age count once live in Switzerland , who have a only son , but he be stupid , and could learn nothing . then say the father , `` Hark thee , my son , I can get nothing into thy head , let I try as I will . Thou must go from hence , I will give thee into the care of a celebrated master , who shall see what he can do with thee . '' the youth be send into a strange town , and remain a whole year with the master . at the end of this time , he come home again , and he father ask , `` now , my son , what hast thou learn ? '' `` Father , I have learn what the dog say when they bark . '' `` Lord have mercy on we ! '' cry the father ; `` be that all thou hast learn ? I will send thee into another town , to another master . '' the youth be take thither , and stay a year with this master likewise . when he come back the father again ask , `` my son , what hast thou learn ? '' he answer , `` Father , I have learn what the bird say . '' then the father fall into a rage and say , `` oh , thou lose man , thou hast spend the precious time and learn nothing ; art thou not ashamed to appear before mine eye ? I will send thee to a third master , but if thou learnest nothing this time also , I will no longer be thy father . '' the youth remain a whole year with the third master also , and when he come home again , and he father inquire , `` my son , what hast thou learn ? '' he answer , `` dear father , I have this year learn what the frog croak . '' then the father fall into the most furious anger , spring up , call he people thither , and say , `` this man be no longer my son , I drive he forth , and command you to take he out into the forest , and kill he . '' they take he forth , but when they should have kill he , they could not do it for pity , and let he go , and they cut the eye and the tongue out of a deer that they might carry they to the old man as a token . the youth wander on , and after some time come to a fortress where he beg for a night 's lodging . `` yes , '' say the lord of the castle , `` if thou wilt pass the night down there in the old tower , go thither ; but I warn thee , it be at the peril of thy life , for it be full of wild dog , which bark and howl without stop , and at certain hour a man have to be give to they , whom they at once devour . '' the whole district be in sorrow and dismay because of they , and yet no one could do anything to stop this . the youth , however , be without fear , and say , `` just let I go down to the bark dog , and give I something that I can throw to they ; they will do nothing to harm I . '' as he himself would have it so , they give he some food for the wild animal , and lead he down to the tower . when he go inside , the dog do not bark at he , but wag they tail quite amicably around he , eat what he set before they , and do not hurt one hair of he head . next morning , to the astonishment of everyone , he come out again safe and unharmed , and say to the lord of the castle , `` the dog have reveal to I , in they own language , why they dwell there , and bring evil on the land . they be bewitch , and be oblige to watch over a great treasure which be below in the tower , and they can have no rest until it be take away , and I have likewise learn , from they discourse , how that be to be do . '' then all who hear this rejoiced , and the lord of the castle say he would adopt he as a son if he accomplish it successfully . he go down again , and as he know what he have to do , he do it thoroughly , and bring a chest full of gold out with he . the howling of the wild dog be henceforth hear no more ; they have disappear , and the country be free from the trouble . after some time he take it into he head that he would travel to Rome . on the way he pass by a marsh , in which a number of frog be sit croaking . he listen to they , and when he become aware of what they be say , he grow very thoughtful and sad . at last he arrive in Rome , where the Pope have just die , and there be great difficulty as to whom they should appoint as he successor . they at length agree that the person should be choose as pope who should be distinguish by some divine and miraculous token . and just as that be decide on , the young count enter into the church , and suddenly two snow-white dove fly on he shoulder and remain sit there . the ecclesiastic recognize therein the token from above , and ask he on the spot if he would be pope . he be undecided , and know not if he be worthy of this , but the dove counsel he to do it , and at length he say yes . then be he anoint and consecrate , and thus be fulfil what he have hear from the frog on he way , which have so affected he , that he be to be he Holiness the Pope . then he have to sing a mass , and do not know one word of it , but the two dove sit continually on he shoulder , and say it all in he ear .