the PHOENIX BIRD . H. C. Andersen in the Garden of Paradise , beneath the Tree of Knowledge , bloom a rose bush . here , in the first rose , a bird be bear : he flight be like the flash of light , he plumage be beauteous , and he song ravishing . but when Eve pluck the fruit of the knowledge of good and evil , when she and Adam be drive from Paradise , there fall from the flaming sword of the cherub a spark into the nest of the bird , which blaze up forthwith . the bird perish in the flame ; but from the red egg in the nest there flutter aloft a new one -- the one solitary Phoenix bird . the fable tell we that he dwell in Arabia , and that every year he burn himself to death in he nest ; but each time a new Phoenix , the only one in the world , rise up from the red egg . the bird flutter round we , swift as light , beauteous in color , charming in song . when a mother sit by she infant 's cradle , he stand on the pillow , and , with he wing , form a glory around the infant 's head . he fly through the chamber of content , and bring sunshine into it , and the violet on the humble table smell doubly sweet . but the Phoenix be not the bird of Arabia alone . he wing he way in the glimmer of the northern light over the plain of Lapland , and hop among the yellow flower in the short Greenland summer . beneath the copper mountain of Fablun , and England 's coal mine , he fly , in the shape of a dusty moth , over the hymn-book that rest on the knee of the pious miner . on a lotus leaf he float down the sacred water of the Ganges , and the eye of the Hindoo maid gleam bright when she behold he . the Phoenix bird , dost thou not know he ? the bird of Paradise , the holy swan of song ! on the car of Thespis he sit in the guise of a chatter raven , and flap he black wing , smear with the lees of wine ; over the sound harp of Iceland sweep the swan 's red beak ; on Shakespeare 's shoulder he sit in the guise of Odin 's raven , and whisper in the poet 's ear `` immortality ! '' and at the minstrel ' feast he flutter through the hall of the Wartburg . the Phoenix bird , dost thou not know he ? he sing to thee the _ Marseillaise _ , and thou kissedst the pen that fall from he wing ; he come in the radiance of Paradise , and perchance thou didst turn away from he towards the sparrow who sit with tinsel on he wing . the bird of Paradise -- renew each century -- bear in flame , end in flame ! thy picture , in a golden frame , hang in the hall of the rich ; and thou thyself often fliest around , lonely and disregard , a myth -- `` the Phoenix of Arabia . '' in Paradise , when thou wert bear in the first rose , beneath the Tree of Knowledge , thou receivedst a kiss , and thy right name be give thee -- thy name , POETRY .