The Glass Coffin BrothersS Grimm by BrothersS Grimm let no one ever say that a poor tailor can not do great thing and win high honor ; all that be need be that he should go to the right smithy , and what be of most consequence , that he should have good luck . a civil , adroit tailor 's apprentice once go out travel , and come into a great forest , and , as he do not know the way , he lose himself . Night fall , and nothing be leave for he to do , but to seek a bed in this painful solitude . he might certainly have find a good bed on the soft moss , but the fear of wild beast let he have no rest there , and at last he be force to make up he mind to spend the night in a tree . he seek out a high oak , climb up to the top of it , and thank God that he have he goose with he , for otherwise the wind which blow over the top of the tree would have carry he away . after he have spend some hour in the darkness , not without fear and tremble , he see at a very short distance the glimmer of a light , and as he think that a human habitation might be there , where he would be better off than on the branch of a tree , he get carefully down and go towards the light . it guide he to a small hut that be weave together of reed and rush . he knock boldly , the door open , and by the light which come forth he see a little hoary old man who wear a coat make of bit of color stuff sewn together . `` who be you , and what do you want ? '' ask the man in a grumbling voice . `` I be a poor tailor , '' he answer , `` whom night have surprise here in the wilderness , and I earnestly beg you to take I into you hut until morning . '' `` go you way , '' reply the old man in a surly voice , `` I will have nothing to do with runagate ; seek for yourself a shelter elsewhere . '' after these word he be about to slip into he hut again , but the tailor hold he so tightly by the corner of he coat , and plead so piteously , that the old man , who be not so ill-natured as he wish to appear , be at last softened , and take he into the hut with he where he give he something to eat , and then point out to he a very good bed in a corner . the weary tailor need no rock ; but sleep sweetly till morning , but even then would not have think of get up , if he have not be arouse by a great noise . a violent sound of scream and roar force its way through the thin wall of the hut . the tailor , full of unwonted courage , jump up , put he clothes on in haste , and hurry out . then close by the hut , he see a great black bull and a beautiful stag , which be just prepare for a violent struggle . they rush at each other with such extreme rage that the ground shake with they trampling , and the air resound with they cry . for a long time it be uncertain which of the two would gain the victory ; at length the stag thrust he horn into he adversary 's body , whereupon the bull fall to the earth with a terrific roar , and be thoroughly despatch by a few stroke from the stag . the tailor , who have watch the fight with astonishment , be still stand there motionless , when the stag in full career bound up to he , and before he could escape , catch he up on he great horn . he have not much time to collect he thought , for it go in a swift race over stock and stone , mountain and valley , wood and meadow . he hold with both hand to the top of the horn , and resign himself to he fate . it seem , however , to he just as if he be fly away . at length the stag stop in front of a wall of rock , and gently let the tailor down . the tailor , more dead than alive , require a longer time than that to come to himself . when he have in some degree recover , the stag , which have remain standing by he , push its horn with such force against a door which be in the rock , that it spring open . flame of fire shot forth , after which follow a great smoke , which hide the stag from he sight . the tailor do not know what to do , or whither to turn , in order to get out of this desert and back to human being again . Whilst he be stand thus undecided , a voice sound out of the rock , which cry to he , `` enter without fear , no evil shall befall you thee . '' he hesitate , but drive by a mysterious force , he obey the voice and go through the iron-door into a large spacious hall , whose ceiling , wall and floor be make of shine polished square stone , on each of which be cut letter which be unknown to he . he look at everything full of admiration , and be on the point of go out again , when he once more hear the voice which say to he , `` step on the stone which lie in the middle of the hall , and great good fortune await thee . '' he courage have already grow so great that he obey the order . the stone begin to give way under he foot , and sink slowly down into the depths . when it be once more firm , and the tailor look round , he find himself in a hall which in size resemble the former . here , however , there be more to look at and to admire . hollow place be cut in the wall , in which stand vase of transparent glass which be fill with color spirit or with a bluish vapor . on the floor of the hall two great glass chest stand opposite to each other , which at once excite he curiosity . when he go to one of they he see inside it a handsome structure like a castle surround by farm-buildings , stable and barn , and a quantity of other good thing . everything be small , but exceedingly carefully and delicately make , and seem to be cut out by a dexterous hand with the greatest exactitude . he might not have turn away he eye from the consideration of this rarity for some time , if the voice have not once more make itself hear . it order he to turn round and look at the glass chest which be stand opposite . how he admiration increase when he see therein a maiden of the greatest beauty ! she lay as if asleep , and be wrap in she long fair hair as in a precious mantle . she eye be closely shut , but the brightness of she complexion and a ribbon which she breathing move to and fro , leave no doubt that she be alive . the tailor be look at the beauty with beating heart , when she suddenly open she eye , and start up at the sight of he in joyful terror . `` just Heaven ! '' cry she , `` my deliverance be at hand ! quick , quick , help I out of my prison ; if thou pushest back the bolt of this glass coffin , then I shall be free . '' the tailor obey without delay , and she immediately raise up the glass lid , come out and hasten into the corner of the hall , where she cover herself with a large cloak . then she seat herself on a stone , order the young man to come to she , and after she have imprint a friendly kiss on he lip , she say , `` my long-desired deliverer , kind Heaven have guide thee to I , and put a end to my sorrow . on the self - same day when they end , shall thy happiness begin . Thou art the husband choose for I by Heaven , and shalt pass thy life in unbroken joy , love by I , and rich to overflow in every earthly possession . seat thyself , and listen to the story of my life : `` I be the daughter of a rich count . my parent die when I be still in my tender youth , and recommend I in they last will to my elder brother , by whom I be bring up . we love each other so tenderly , and be so alike in we way of thinking and we inclination , that we both embrace the resolution never to marry , but to stay together to the end of we life . in we house there be no lack of company ; neighbor and friend visit we often , and we show the greatest hospitality to every one . so it come to pass one evening that a stranger come ride to we castle , and , under pretext of not be able to get on to the next place , beg for shelter for the night . we grant he request with ready courtesy , and he entertain we in the most agreeable manner during supper by conversation intermingle with story . my brother like the stranger so much that he beg he to spend a couple of day with we , to which , after some hesitation , he consent . we do not rise from table until late in the night , the stranger be show to room , and I hasten , as I be tire , to lay my limb in my soft bed . hardly have I sleep for a short time , when the sound of faint and delightful music awake I . as I could not conceive from whence it come , I want to summon my waiting-maid who sleep in the next room , but to my astonishment I find that speech be take away from I by a unknown force . I feel as if a mountain be weigh down my breast , and be unable to make the very slightest sound . in the meantime , by the light of my night-lamp , I see the stranger enter my room through two door which be fast bolt . he come to I and say , that by magic art which be at he command , he have cause the lovely music to sound in order to awaken I , and that he now force he way through all fastening with the intention of offer I he hand and heart . my repugnance to he magic art be , however , so great , that I vouchsafe he no answer . he remain for a time standing without move , apparently with the idea of wait for a favorable decision , but as I continue to keep silence , he angrily declare he would revenge himself and find means to punish my pride , and leave the room . I pass the night in the greatest disquietude , and only fall asleep towards morning . when I awake , I hurry to my brother , but do not find he in he room , and the attendant tell I that he have ride forth with the stranger to the chase by daybreak . `` I at once suspect nothing good . I dress myself quickly , order my palfrey to be saddle , and accompany only by one servant , ride full gallop to the forest . the servant fall with he horse , and could not follow I , for the horse have break its foot . I pursue my way without halt , and in a few minute I see the stranger come towards I with a beautiful stag which he lead by a cord . I ask he where he have leave my brother , and how he have come by this stag , out of whose great eye I see tear flow . instead of answer I , he begin to laugh loudly . I fall into a great rage at this , pull out a pistol and discharge it at the monster ; but the ball rebounded from he breast and go into my horse 's head . I fall to the ground , and the stranger mutter some word which deprive I of consciousness . `` when I come to my sens again I find myself in this underground cave in a glass coffin . the magician appear once again , and say he have change my brother into a stag , my castle with all that belong to it , diminish in size by he art , he have shut up in the other glass chest , and my people , who be all turn into smoke , he have confine in glass bottle . he tell I that if I would now comply with he wish , it be a easy thing for he to put everything back in its former state , as he have nothing to do but open the vessel , and everything would return once more to its natural form . I answer he as little as I have do the first time . he vanish and leave I in my prison , in which a deep sleep come on I . amongst the vision which pass before my eye , that be the most comforting in which a young man come and set I free , and when I open my eye to-day I see thee , and beheld my dream fulfil . help I to accomplish the other thing which happen in those vision . the first be that we lift the glass chest in which my castle be enclose , on to that broad stone . '' as soon as the stone be laden , it begin to rise up on high with the maiden and the young man , and mount through the opening of the ceiling into the upper hall , from whence they then could easily reach the open air . here the maiden open the lid , and it be marvellous to behold how the castle , the house , and the farm building which be enclose , stretch themselves out and grow to they natural size with the greatest rapidity . after this , the maiden and the tailor return to the cave beneath the earth , and have the vessel which be fill with smoke carry up by the stone . the maiden have scarcely open the bottle when the blue smoke rush out and change itself into live man , in whom she recognize she servant and she people . she joy be still more increase when she brother , who have kill the magician in the form of the bull , come out of the forest towards they in he human form , and on the self-same day the maiden , in accordance with she promise , give she hand at the altar to the lucky tailor .