the happy hunter and the SKILLFUL FISHER . Japanese Writer Long , long ago Japan be govern by Hohodemi , the fourth Mikoto -lrb-B- or Augustness -rrb-B- in descent from the illustrious Amaterasu , the Sun Goddess . he be not only as handsome as he ancestress be beautiful , but he be also very strong and brave , and be famous for be the greatest hunter in the land . because of he matchless skill as a hunter , he be call `` yama-sachi-hiko '' or `` the happy Hunter of the MountainsS . '' he elder brother be a very skillful fisher , and as he far surpass all rival in fishing , he be name `` unii-sachi-hiko '' or the `` Skillful Fisher of the Sea . '' the brother thus lead happy life , thoroughly enjoy they respective occupation , and the day pass quickly and pleasantly while each pursue he own way , the one hunting and the other fishing . one day the happy Hunter come to he brother , the Skillful Fisher , and say : `` well , my brother , I see you go to the sea every day with you fishing rod in you hand , and when you return you come laden with fish . and as for I , it be my pleasure to take my bow and arrow and to hunt the wild animal up the mountain and down in the valley . for a long time we have each follow we favorite occupation , so that now we must both be tire , you of you fishing and I of my hunting . would it not be wise for we to make a change ? Will you try hunting in the mountain and I will go and fish in the sea ? '' the Skillful Fisher listen in silence to he brother , and for a moment be thoughtful , but at last he answer : `` O yes , why not ? you idea be not a bad one at all . give I you bow and arrow and I will set out at once for the mountain and hunt for game . '' so the matter be settle by this talk , and the two brother each start out to try the other 's occupation , little dream of all that would happen . it be very unwise of they , for the happy Hunter know nothing of fishing , and the Skillful Fisher , who be bad temper , know as much about hunting . the happy Hunter take he brother 's much-prized fishing hook and rod and go down to the seashore and sit down on the rock . he bait he hook and then throw it into the sea clumsily . he sit and gaze at the little float bob up and down in the water , and long for a good fish to come and be catch . every time the buoy move a little he pull up he rod , but there be never a fish at the end of it , only the hook and the bait . if he have know how to fish properly , he would have be able to catch plenty of fish , but although he be the greatest hunter in the land he could not help be the most bungling fisher . the whole day pass in this way , while he sit on the rock hold the fishing rod and wait in vain for he luck to turn . at last the day begin to darken , and the evening come ; still he have catch not a single fish . draw up he line for the last time before go home , he find that he have lose he hook without even know when he have drop it . he now begin to feel extremely anxious , for he know that he brother would be angry at he have lose he hook , for , it be he only one , he value it above all other thing . the happy Hunter now set to work to look among the rock and on the sand for the lose hook , and while he be search to and fro , he brother , the Skillful Fisher , arrive on the scene . he have fail to find any game while hunting that day , and be not only in a bad temper , but look fearfully cross . when he see the happy Hunter search about on the shore he know that something must have go wrong , so he say at once : `` what be you do , my brother ? '' the happy Hunter go forward timidly , for he fear he brother 's anger , and say : `` oh , my brother , I have indeed do badly . '' `` what be the matter ? -- what have you do ? '' ask the elder brother impatiently . `` I have lose you precious fishing hook -- '' while he be still speak he brother stop he , and cry out fiercely : `` lose my hook ! it be just what I expect . for this reason , when you first propose you plan of change over we occupation I be really against it , but you seem to wish it so much that I give in and allow you to do as you wish . the mistake of we try unfamiliar task be soon see ! and you have do badly . I will not return you you bow and arrow till you have find my hook . look to it that you find it and return it to I quickly . '' the happy Hunter feel that he be to blame for all that have come to pass , and bear he brother 's scornful scolding with humility and patience . he hunt everywhere for the hook most diligently , but it be nowhere to be find . he be at last obliged to give up all hope of find it . he then go home , and in desperation break he beloved sword into piece and make five hundred hook out of it . he take these to he angry brother and offer they to he , ask he forgiveness , and beg he to accept they in the place of the one he have lose for he . it be useless ; he brother would not listen to he , much less grant he request . the happy Hunter then make another five hundred hook , and again take they to he brother , beseech he to pardon he . `` though you make a million hook , '' say the Skillful Fisher , shake he head , `` they be of no use to I . I can not forgive you unless you bring I back my own hook . '' nothing would appease the anger of the Skillful Fisher , for he have a bad disposition , and have always hate he brother because of he virtue , and now with the excuse of the lose fishing hook he plan to kill he and to usurp he place as ruler of Japan . the happy Hunter know all this full well , but he could say nothing , for be the younger he owe he elder brother obedience ; so he return to the seashore and once more begin to look for the miss hook . he be much cast down , for he have lose all hope of ever find he brother 's hook now . while he stand on the beach , lose in perplexity and wonder what he have best do next , a old man suddenly appear carry a stick in he hand . the happy Hunter afterwards remember that he do not see from whence the old man come , neither do he know how he be there -- he happen to look up and see the old man come towards he . `` you be Hohodemi , the Augustness , sometimes call the happy Hunter , be you not ? '' ask the old man . `` what be you do alone in such a place ? '' `` yes , I be he , '' answer the unhappy young man . `` unfortunately , while fishing I lose my brother 's precious fishing hook . I have hunt this shore all over , but alas ! I can not find it , and I be very troubled , for my brother will not forgive I till I restore it to he . but who be you ? '' `` my name be Shiwozuchino Okina , and I live near by on this shore . I be sorry to hear what misfortune have befall you . you must indeed be anxious . but if I tell you what I think , the hook be nowhere here -- it be either at the bottom of the sea or in the body of some fish who have swallow it , and for this reason , though you spend you whole life in look for it here , you will never find it . '' `` then what can I do ? '' ask the distressed man . `` you have better go down to ryn Gu and tell Ryn Jin , the Dragon King of the Sea , what you trouble be and ask he to find the hook for you . I think that would be the best way . '' `` you idea be a splendid one , '' say the happy Hunter , `` but I fear I can not get to the Sea King 's realm , for I have always hear that it be situate at the bottom of the sea . '' `` oh , there will be no difficulty about you get there , '' say the old man ; `` I can soon make something for you to ride on through the sea . '' `` thank you , '' say the happy Hunter , `` I shall be very grateful to you if you will be so kind . '' the old man at once set to work , and soon make a basket and offer it to the happy Hunter . he receive it with joy , and take it to the water , mount it , and prepare to start . he bid good by to the kind old man who have help he so much , and tell he that he would certainly reward he as soon as he find he hook and could return to Japan without fear of he brother 's anger . the old man point out the direction he must take , and tell he how to reach the realm of Ryn Gu , and watch he ride out to sea on the basket , which resemble a small boat . the happy Hunter make all the haste he could , ride on the basket which have be give he by he friend . he queer boat seem to go through the water of its own accord , and the distance be much shorter than he have expect , for in a few hour he catch sight of the gate and the roof of the Sea King 's Palace . and what a large place it be , with its numberless sloping roof and gable , its huge gateway , and its gray stone wall ! he soon land , and leave he basket on the beach , he walk up to the large gateway . the pillar of the gate be make of beautiful red coral , and the gate itself be adorn with glitter gem of all kind . large katsura tree overshadow it . we hero have often hear of the wonder of the Sea King 's Palace beneath the sea , but all the story he have ever hear fall short of the reality which he now see for the first time . the happy Hunter would have like to enter the gate there and then , but he see that it be fast close , and also that there be no one about whom he could ask to open it for he , so he stop to think what he should do . in the shade of the tree before the gate he notice a well full of fresh spring water . surely some one would come out to draw water from the well some time , he think . then he climb into the tree overhang the well , and seat himself to rest on one of the branch , and wait for what might happen . ere long he see the huge gate swing open , and two beautiful woman come out . now the Mikoto -lrb-B- Augustness -rrb-B- have always hear that Ryn Gu be the realm of the Dragon King under the Sea , and have naturally suppose that the place be inhabit by dragon and similar terrible creature , so that when he see these two lovely princess , whose beauty would be rare even in the world from which he have just come , he be exceedingly surprised , and wonder what it could mean . he say not a word , however , but silently gaze at they through the foliage of the tree , wait to see what they would do . he see that in they hand they carry golden bucket . slowly and gracefully in they trail garment they approach the well , stand in the shade of the katsura tree , and be about to draw water , all unknowing of the stranger who be watch they , for the happy Hunter be quite hidden among the branch of the tree where he have post himself . as the two lady lean over the side of the well to let down they golden bucket , which they do every day in the year , they see reflect in the deep still water the face of a handsome youth gaze at they from amidst the branch of the tree in whose shade they stand . never before have they see the face of mortal man ; they be frighten , and draw back quickly with they golden bucket in they hand . they curiosity , however , soon give they courage , and they glance timidly upwards to see the cause of the unusual reflection , and then they behold the happy Hunter sit in the tree look down at they with surprise and admiration . they gaze at he face to face , but they tongue be still with wonder and could not find a word to say to he . when the Mikoto see that he be discover , he spring down lightly from the tree and say : `` I be a traveler , and as I be very thirsty I come to the well in the hope of quench my thirst , but I could find no bucket with which to draw the water . so I climb into the tree , much vex , and wait for some one to come . just at that moment , while I be thirstily and impatiently wait , you noble lady appear , as if in answer to my great need . therefore I pray you of you mercy give I some water to drink , for I be a thirsty traveler in a strange land . '' he dignity and graciousness overrule they timidity , and bow in silence they both once more approach the well , and let down they golden bucket draw up some water and pour it into a jeweled cup and offer it to the stranger . he receive it from they with both hand , raise it to the height of he forehead in token of high respect and pleasure , and then drink the water quickly , for he thirst be great . when he have finish he long draught he set the cup down on the edge of the well , and draw he short sword he cut off one of the strange curved jewel -lrb-B- magatama -rrb-B- , a necklace of which hung round he neck and fall over he breast . he place the jewel in the cup and return it to they , and say , bow deeply : `` this be a token of my thanks ! '' the two lady take the cup , and look into it to see what he have put inside -- for they do not yet know what it be -- they give a start of surprise , for there lay a beautiful gem at the bottom of the cup . `` no ordinary mortal would give away a jewel so freely . Will you not honor we by tell we who you be ? '' say the elder damsel . `` certainly , '' say the happy Hunter , `` I be Hohodemi , the fourth Mikoto , also call in Japan , the happy Hunter . '' `` be you indeed Hohodemi , the grandson of Amaterasu , the Sun Goddess ? '' ask the damsel who have speak first . `` I be the eldest daughter of Ryn Jin , the King of the Sea , and my name be Princess Tayotama . '' `` and , '' say the younger maiden , who at last find she tongue , `` I be she sister , the Princess Tamayori . '' `` be you indeed the daughter of Ryn Jin , the King of the Sea ? I can not tell you how glad I be to meet you , '' say the happy Hunter . and without wait for they to reply he go on : `` the other day I go fishing with my brother 's hook and drop it , how , I be sure I can not tell . as my brother prize he fishing hook above all he other possession , this be the greatest calamity that could have befall I . unless I find it again I can never hope to win my brother 's forgiveness , for he be very angry at what I have do . I have search for it many , many time , but I can not find it , therefore I be much trouble . while I be hunting for the hook , in great distress , I meet a wise old man , and he tell I that the best thing I could do be to come to ryn Gu , and to Ryn Jin , the Dragon King of the Sea , and ask he to help I . this kind old man also show I how to come . now you know how it be I be here and why . I want to ask Ryn Jin , if he know where the lose hook be . Will you be so kind as to take I to you father ? and do you think he will see I ? '' ask the happy Hunter anxiously . Princess Tayotama listen to this long story , and then say : `` not only be it easy for you to see my father , but he will be much pleased to meet you . I be sure he will say that good fortune have befall he , that so great and noble a man as you , the grandson of Amaterasu . should come down to the bottom of the sea . '' and then turn to she younger sister , she say : `` do you not think so , Tamayori ? '' `` yes , indeed , '' answer the Princess Tamayori , in she sweet voice . `` as you say , we can know no greater honor than to welcome the Mikoto to we home . '' `` then I ask you to be so kind as to lead the way , '' say the happy Hunter . `` Condescend to enter , Mikoto -lrb-B- Augustness -rrb-B- , '' say both the sister , and bow low , they lead he through the gate . the younger Princess leave she sister to take charge of the happy Hunter , and go faster than they , she reach the Sea King 's Palace first , and run quickly to she father 's room , she tell he of all that have happen to they at the gate , and that she sister be even now bring the Augustness to he . the Dragon King of the Sea be much surprise at the news , for it be but seldom , perhaps only once in several hundred year , that the Sea King 's Palace be visit by mortal . Ryn Jin at once clap he hand and summon all he courtier and the servant of the Palace , and the chief fish of the sea together , and solemnly tell they that the grandson of the Sun Goddess , Amaterasu , be come to the Palace , and that they must be very ceremonious and polite in serve the August visitor . he then order they all to the entrance of the Palace to welcome the happy Hunter . Ryn Jin then dress himself in he robe of ceremony , and go out to welcome he . in a few moment the Princess Tayotama and the happy Hunter reach the entrance , and the Sea King and he wife bow to the ground and thank he for the honor he do they in come to see they . the Sea King then lead the happy Hunter to the guest room , and place he in the uppermost seat , he bow respectfully before he , and say : `` I be Ryn Jin , the Dragon King of the Sea , and this be my wife . Condescend to remember we forever ! '' `` be you indeed Ryn Jin , the King of the Sea , of whom I have so often hear ? '' answer the happy Hunter , salute he host most ceremoniously . `` I must apologize for all the trouble I be give you by my unexpected visit . '' and he bow again , and thank the Sea King . `` you need not thank I , '' say Ryn Jin . `` it be I who must thank you for come . although the Sea Palace be a poor place , as you see , I shall be highly honor if you will make we a long visit . '' there be much gladness between the Sea King and the happy Hunter , and they sit and talk for a long time . at last the Sea King clap he hand , and then a huge retinue of fish appear , all robe in ceremonial garment , and bearing in they fin various tray on which all kind of sea delicacy be serve . a great feast be now spread before the King and he Royal guest . all the fishes-in-waiting be choose from amongst the finest fish in the sea , so you can imagine what a wonderful array of sea creature it be that wait upon the happy Hunter that day . all in the Palace try to do they best to please he and to show he that he be a much honor guest . during the long repast , which last for hour , Ryn Jin command he daughter to play some music , and the two PrincessesS come in and perform on the KOTO -lrb-B- the japanese harp -rrb-B- , and sing and dance in turn . the time pass so pleasantly that the happy Hunter seem to forget he trouble and why he have come at all to the Sea King 's Realm , and he give himself up to the enjoyment of this wonderful place , the land of fairy fish ! who have ever hear of such a marvelous place ? but the Mikoto soon remember what have bring he to ryn Gu , and say to he host : `` perhaps you daughter have tell you , King Ryn Jin , that I have come here to try and recover my brother 's fishing hook , which I lose while fish the other day . May I ask you to be so kind as to inquire of all you subject if any of they have see a fishing hook lose in the sea ? '' `` certainly , '' say the oblige Sea King , `` I will immediately summon they all here and ask they . '' as soon as he have issue he command , the octopus , the cuttlefish , the bonito , the oxtail fish , the eel , the jelly fish , the shrimp , and the plaice , and many other fish of all kind come in and sit down before Ryn Jin they king , and arrange themselves and they fin in order . then the Sea King say solemnly : `` we visitor who be sit before you all be the August grandson of Amaterasu . he name be Hohodemi , the fourth Augustness , and he be also call the happy Hunter of the MountainsS . while he be fish the other day upon the shore of Japan , some one rob he of he brother 's fishing hook . he have come all this way down to the bottom of the sea to we Kingdom because he think that one of you fish may have take the hook from he in mischievous play . if any of you have do so you must immediately return it , or if any of you know who the thief be you must at once tell we he name and where he be now . '' all the fish be take by surprise when they hear these word , and could say nothing for some time . they sit look at each other and at the Dragon King . at last the cuttlefish come forward and say : `` I think the TAI -lrb-B- the red bream -rrb-B- must be the thief who have steal the hook ! '' `` where be you proof ? '' ask the King . `` since yesterday evening the TAI have not be able to eat anything , and he seem to be suffer from a bad throat ! for this reason I think the hook may be in he throat . you have better send for he at once ! '' all the fish agree to this , and say : `` it be certainly strange that the TAI be the only fish who have not obey you summons . Will you send for he and inquire into the matter . then we innocence will be prove . '' `` yes , '' say the Sea King , `` it be strange that the TAI have not come , for he ought to be the first to be here . send for he at once ! '' without wait for the King 's order the cuttlefish have already start for the TAI 's dwelling , and he now return , bring the TAI with he . he lead he before the King . the TAI sit there look frightened and ill. . he certainly be in pain , for he usually red face be pale , and he eye be nearly close and look but half they usual size . `` answer , O TAI ! '' cry the Sea King , `` why do you not come in answer to my summons today ? '' `` I have be ill since yesterday , '' answer the TAI ; `` that be why I could not come . '' `` do not say another word ! '' cry out Ryn Jin angrily . `` you illness be the punishment of the god for steal the Mikoto 's hook . '' `` it be only too true ! '' say the TAI ; `` the hook be still in my throat , and all my effort to get it out have be useless . I can not eat , and I can scarcely breathe , and each moment I feel that it will choke I , and sometimes it give I great pain . I have no intention of steal the Mikoto 's hook . I heedlessly snap at the bait which I see in the water , and the hook come off and stick in my throat . so I hope you will pardon I . '' the cuttlefish now come forward , and say to the King : `` what I say be right . you see the hook still stick in the TAI 's throat . I hope to be able to pull it out in the presence of the Mikoto , and then we can return it to he safely ! '' `` o please make haste and pull it out ! '' cry the TAI , pitifully , for he feel the pain in he throat come on again ; `` I do so want to return the hook to the Mikoto . '' `` all right , TAI SAN , '' say he friend the cuttlefish , and then open the TAI 's mouth as wide as he could and put one of he feeler down the TAI 's throat , he quickly and easily draw the hook out of the sufferer 's large mouth . he then wash it and bring it to the King . Ryn Jin take the hook from he subject , and then respectfully return it to the happy Hunter -lrb-B- the Mikoto or Augustness , the fish call he -rrb-B- , who be overjoy at get back he hook . he thank Ryn Jin many time , he face beam with gratitude , and say that he owe the happy ending of he quest to the Sea King 's wise authority and kindness . Ryn Jin now desire to punish the TAI , but the happy Hunter beg he not to do so ; since he lose hook be thus happily recover he do not wish to make more trouble for the poor TAI . it be indeed the TAI who have take the hook , but he have already suffer enough for he fault , if fault it could be call . what have be do be do in heedlessness and not by intention . the happy Hunter say he blame himself ; if he have understand how to fish properly he would never have lose he hook , and therefore all this trouble have be cause in the first place by he try to do something which he do not know how to do . so he beg the Sea King to forgive he subject . who could resist the plead of so wise and compassionate a judge ? Ryn Jin forgive he subject at once at the request of he August guest . the TAI be so glad that he shake he fin for joy , and he and all the other fish go out from the presence of they king , praise the virtue of the happy Hunter . now that the hook be find the happy Hunter have nothing to keep he in Ryn Gu , and he be anxious to get back to he own kingdom and to make peace with he angry brother , the Skillful Fisher ; but the Sea King , who have learn to love he and would fain have keep he as a son , beg he not to go so soon , but to make the Sea Palace he home as long as ever he like . while the happy Hunter be still hesitate , the two lovely princess , Tayotama and Tamayori , come , and with the sweetest of bow and voice join with they father in press he to stay , so that without seem ungracious he could not say they `` Nay , '' and be oblige to stay on for some time . between the Sea Realm and the Earth there be no difference in the night of time , and the happy Hunter find that three year go fleeting quickly by in this delightful land . the year pass swiftly when any one be truly happy . but though the wonder of that enchanted land seem to be new every day , and though the Sea King 's kindness seem rather to increase than to grow less with time , the happy Hunter grow more and more homesick as the day pass , and he could not repress a great anxiety to know what have happen to he home and he country and he brother while he have be away . so at last he go to the Sea King and say : `` my stay with you here have be most happy and I be very grateful to you for all you kindness to I , but I govern Japan , and , delightful as this place be , I can not absent myself forever from my country . I must also return the fishing hook to my brother and ask he forgiveness for have deprive he of it for so long . I be indeed very sorry to part from you , but this time it can not be help . with you gracious permission , I will take my leave to-day . I hope to make you another visit some day . please give up the idea of my staying longer now . '' King Ryn Jin be overcome with sorrow at the thought that he must lose he friend who have make a great diversion in the Palace of the Sea , and he tear fall fast as he answer : `` we be indeed very sorry to part with you , Mikoto , for we have enjoy you stay with we very much . you have be a noble and honor guest and we have heartily make you welcome . I quite understand that as you govern Japan you ought to be there and not here , and that it be vain for we to try and keep you longer with we , much as we would like to have you stay . I hope you will not forget we . strange circumstance have bring we together and I trust the friendship thus begin between the Land and the Sea will last and grow stronger than it have ever be before . '' when the Sea King have finish speaking he turn to he two daughter and bid they bring he the two tide-jewels of the Sea . the two PrincessesS bow low , rise and glide out of the hall . in a few minute they return , each one carrying in she hand a flash gem which fill the room with light . as the happy Hunter look at they he wonder what they could be . the Sea King take they from he daughter and say to he guest : `` these two valuable talisman we have inherit from we ancestor from time immemorial . we now give they to you as a parting gift in token of we great affection for you . these two gem be call the nanjiu and the kanjiu . '' the happy Hunter bow low to the ground and say : `` I can never thank you enough for all you kindness to I . and now will you add one more favor to the rest and tell I what these jewel be and what I be to do with they ? '' `` the nanjiu , '' answer the Sea King , `` be also call the Jewel of the Flood Tide , and whoever hold it in he possession can command the sea to roll in and to flood the land at any time that he will . the kanjiu be also call the Jewel of the Ebbing Tide , and this gem control the sea and the wave thereof , and will cause even a tidal wave to recede . '' then Ryn Jin show he friend how to use the talisman one by one and hand they to he . the happy Hunter be very glad to have these two wonderful gem , the Jewel of the Flood Tide and the Jewel of the Ebbing Tide , to take back with he , for he feel that they would preserve he in case of danger from enemy at any time . after thank he kind host again and again , he prepare to depart . the Sea King and the two PrincessesS , Tayotama and Tamayori , and all the inmate of the Palace , come out to say `` good-by , '' and before the sound of the last farewell have die away the happy Hunter pass out from under the gateway , past the well of happy memory standing in the shade of the great KATSURA tree on he way to the beach . here he find , instead of the queer basket on which he have come to the realm of Ryn Gu , a large crocodile wait for he . never have he see such a huge creature . it measure eight fathom in length from the tip of its tail to the end of its long mouth . the Sea King have order the monster to carry the happy Hunter back to Japan . like the wonderful basket which Shiwozuchino Okina have make , it could travel faster than any steamboat , and in this strange way , ride on the back of a crocodile , the happy Hunter return to he own land . as soon as the crocodile land he , the happy Hunter hasten to tell the Skillful Fisher of he safe return . he then give he back the fishing hook which have be find in the mouth of the TAI and which have be the cause of so much trouble between they . he earnestly beg he brother 's forgiveness , tell he all that have happen to he in the Sea King 's Palace and what wonderful adventure have lead to the finding of the hook . now the Skillful Fisher have use the lose hook as a excuse for drive he brother out of the country . when he brother have leave he that day three year ago , and have not return , he have be very glad in he evil heart and have at once usurp he brother 's place as ruler of the land , and have become powerful and rich . now in the midst of enjoy what do not belong to he , and hope that he brother might never return to claim he rights , quite unexpectedly there stand the happy Hunter before he . the Skillful Fisher feign forgiveness , for he could make no more excuse for send he brother away again , but in he heart he be very angry and hate he brother more and more , till at last be could no longer bear the sight of he day after day , and plan and watch for a opportunity to kill he . one day when the happy Hunter be walk in the rice field he brother follow he with a dagger . the happy Hunter know that he brother be follow he to kill he , and he feel that now , in this hour of great danger , be the time to use the jewel of the Flow and Ebb of the Tide and prove whether what the Sea King have tell he be true or not . so he take out the Jewel of the Flood Tide from the bosom of he dress and raise it to he forehead . instantly over the field and over the farm the sea come roll in wave upon wave till it reach the spot where he brother be stand . the Skillful Fisher stand amaze and terrify to see what be happen . in another minute he be struggle in the water and call on he brother to save he from drown . the happy Hunter have a kind heart and could not bear the sight of he brother 's distress . he at once put back the Jewel of the Flood Tide and take out the Jewel of the Ebb Tide . no sooner do he hold it up as high as he forehead than the sea run back and back , and ere long the toss rolling flood have vanish , and the farm and field and dry land appear as before . the Skillful Fisher be very frighten at the peril of death in which he have stand , and be greatly impress by the wonderful thing he have see he brother do . he learn now that he be make a fatal mistake to set himself against he brother , younger than he think he be , for he now have become so powerful that the sea would flow in and the tide ebb at he word of command . so he humble himself before the happy Hunter and ask he to forgive he all the wrong he have do he . the Skillful Fisher promise to restore he brother to he rights and also swear that though the happy Hunter be the younger brother and owe he allegiance by right of birth , that he , the Skillful Fisher , would exalt he as he superior and bow before he as Lord of all Japan . then the happy Hunter say that he would forgive he brother if he would throw into the recede tide all he evil way . the Skillful Fisher promise and there be peace between the two brother . from this time he keep he word and become a good man and a kind brother . the happy Hunter now rule he Kingdom without be disturb by family strife , and there be peace in Japan for a long , long time . above all the treasure in he house he prize the wonderful jewel of the Flow and Ebb of the Tide which have be give he by Ryn Jin , the Dragon King of the Sea . this be the congratulatory ending of the happy Hunter and the Skillful Fisher .