the FARMYARD COCK and the WEATHERCOCK . H. C. Andersen there be two cock -- one on the dunghill , the other on the roof . both be conceit ; but which of the two effect most ? tell we you opinion ; but we shall keep we own nevertheless . the poultry-yard be divide by a partition of board from another yard , in which lay a manure-heap , whereon lay and grow a great cucumber , which be fully conscious of be a forcing-bed plant . `` that be a privilege of birth , '' the Cucumber say to herself . `` not all can be bear cucumber ; there must be other kind too . the fowl , the duck , and all the cattle in the neighbouring yard be creature too . I now look up to the Yard Cock on the partition . he certainly be of much greater consequence than the Weathercock , who be so highly place , and who can not even creak , much less crow ; and he have neither hen nor chicken , and think only of himself , and perspire verdigris . but the Yard Cock -- he be something like a cock ! he gait be like a dance , he crowing be music ; and wherever he come , it be know directly . what a trumpeter he be ! if he would only come in here ! even if he be to eat I up , stalk and all , it would be a blissful death , '' say the Cucumber . in the night the weather become very bad . hen , chicken , and even the Cock himself seek shelter . the wind blow down the partition between the two yard with a crash ; the tile come tumble down , but the Weathercock sit firm . he do not even turn round ; he could not turn round , and yet he be young and newly cast , but steady and sedate . he have be `` bear old , '' and do not at all resemble the bird that fly beneath the vault of heaven , such as the sparrow and the swallow . he despise those , consider they pipe bird of trifle stature -- ordinary song bird . the pigeon , he allow , be big and shine , and gleam like mother-o ' - pearl , and look like a kind of weathercock ; but then they be fat and stupid , and they whole endeavor be to fill themselves with food . `` moreover , they be tedious thing to converse with , '' say the Weathercock . the bird of passage have also pay a visit to the Weathercock , and tell he tale of foreign land , of airy caravan , and exciting robber story ; of encounter with bird of prey ; and that be interesting for the first time , but the Weathercock know that afterwards they always repeat themselves , and that be tedious . `` they be tedious , and all be tedious , '' he say . `` no one be fit to associate with , and one and all of they be wearisome and stupid . '' `` the world be worth nothing , '' he cry . `` the whole thing be a stupidity . '' the Weathercock be what be call `` use up ; '' and that quality would certainly have make he interesting in the eye of the Cucumber if she have know it ; but she have only eye for the Yard Cock , who have now actually come into she own yard . the wind have blow down the plank , but the storm have pass over . -lrb-B- illustration : the WEATHERCOCK . aaaaa -rrb-B- aaa `` what do you think of _ that _ crowing ? '' the Yard Cock inquire of he hen and chicken . `` it be a little rough -- the elegance be want . '' and hen and chicken step upon the muck-heap , and the Cock strut to and fro on it like a knight . `` Garden plant ! '' he cry out to the Cucumber ; and in this one word she understand he deep feeling , and forget that he be peck at she and eat she up -- a happy death ! and the hen come , and the chicken come , and when one of they run the rest run also ; and they cluck and chirp , and look at the Cock , and be proud that he be of they kind . `` cock-a-doodle-doo ! '' he crow . `` the chicken will grow up large fowl if I make a noise in the poultry-yard of the world . '' and hen and chicken cluck and chirp , and the Cock tell they a great piece of news : `` a cock can lay a egg ; and do you know what there be in that egg ? in that egg lie a basilisk . no one can stand the sight of a basilisk . man know that , and now you know it too -- you know what be in I , and what a cock of the world I be . '' and with this the Yard Cock flap he wing , and make he comb swell up , and crow again ; and all of they shudder -- all the hen and the chicken ; but they be proud that one of they people should be such a cock of the world . they cluck and chirp , so that the Weathercock hear it ; and he hear it , but he never stir . `` it be all stupid stuff ! '' say a voice within the Weathercock . `` the Yard Cock do not lay egg , and I be too lazy to lay any . if I like , I could lay a wind-egg ; but the world be not worth a wind-egg . and now I do not like even to sit here any longer . '' and with this the Weathercock break off ; but he do not kill the Yard Cock , though he intend to do so , as the hen declare . and what do the moral say ? -- `` Better to crow than to be ` use up ' and break off . ''