22 the Riddle BrothersS Grimm there be once a King 's son who be seize with a desire to travel about the world , and take no one with he but a faithful servant . one day he come to a great forest , and when darkness overtook he he could find no shelter , and know not where to pass the night . then he see a girl who be go towards a small house , and when he come nearer , he see that the maiden be young and beautiful . he speak to she , and say , `` dear child , can I and my servant find shelter for the night in the little house ? '' `` oh , yes , '' say the girl in a sad voice , `` that you certainly can , but I do not advise you to venture it . do not go in . '' `` why not ? '' ask the King 's son . the maiden sigh and say , `` my step-mother practise wicked art ; she be ill-disposed toward stranger . '' then he see very well that he have come to the house of a witch , but as it be dark , and he could not go farther , and also be not afraid , he enter . the old woman be sit in a armchair by the fire , and look at the stranger with she red eye . `` good evening , '' growl she , and pretend to be quite friendly . `` take a seat and rest yourselve . '' she blow up the fire on which she be cooking something in a small pot . the daughter warn the two to be prudent , to eat nothing , and drink nothing , for the old woman brew evil drink . they sleep quietly until early morning . when they be make ready for they departure , and the King 's son be already seat on he horse , the old woman say , `` stop a moment , I will first hand you a parting draught . '' Whilst she fetch it , the King 's son ride away , and the servant who have to buckle he saddle tight , be the only one present when the wicked witch come with the drink . `` take that to you master , '' say she . but at that instant the glass break and the poison spirt on the horse , and it be so strong that the animal immediately fall down dead . the servant run after he master and tell he what have happen , but would not leave he saddle behind he , and run back to fetch it . when , however , he come to the dead horse a raven be already sit on it devour it . `` who know whether we shall find anything better to-day ? '' say the servant ; so he kill the raven , and take it with he . and now they journey onward into the forest the whole day , but could not get out of it . by nightfall they find a inn and enter it . the servant give the raven to the innkeeper to make ready for supper . they have , however , stumble on a den of murderer , and during the darkness twelve of these come , intend to kill the stranger and rob they . before they set about this work , they sit down to supper , and the innkeeper and the witch sit down with they , and together they eat a dish of soup in which be cut up the flesh of the raven . hardly , however , have they swallow a couple of mouthful , before they all fall down dead , for the raven have communicate to they the poison from the horse-flesh . there be no no one else leave in the house but the innkeeper 's daughter , who be honest , and have take no part in they godless deed . she open all door to the stranger and show he the heaped-up treasure . but the King 's son say she might keep everything , he would have none of it , and ride onward with he servant . after they have travel about for a long time , they come to a town in which be a beautiful but proud princess , who have cause it to be proclaim that whosoever should set she a riddle which she could not guess , that man should be she husband ; but if she guess it , he head must be cut off . she have three day to guess it in , but be so clever that she always find the answer to the riddle give she , before the appointed time . nine suitor have already perish in this manner , when the King 's son arrive , and blind by she great beauty , be willing to stake he life for it . then he go to she and lay he riddle before she . `` what be this ? '' say he , `` one slew none , and yet slew twelve . '' she do not know what that be , she think and think , but she could not find out , she open she riddle-books , but it be not in they -- in short , she wisdom be at a end . as she do not know how to help herself , she order she maid to creep into the lord 's sleeping-chamber , and listen to he dream , and think that he would perhaps speak in he sleep and discover the riddle . but the clever servant have place himself in the bed instead of he master , and when the maid come there , he tear off from she the mantle in which she have wrap herself , and chase she out with rod . the second night the King 's daughter send she maid-in-waiting , who be to see if she could succeed better in listening , but the servant take she mantle also away from she , and hunt she out with rod . now the master believe himself safe for the third night , and lay down in he own bed . then come the princess herself , and she have put on a misty-grey mantle , and she seat herself near he . and when she think that he be asleep and dream , she speak to he , and hope that he would answer in he sleep , as many do , but he be awake , and understand and hear everything quite well . then she ask , `` one slew none , what be that ? '' he reply , `` a raven , which eat of a dead and poison horse , and die of it . '' she inquire further , `` and yet slew twelve , what be that ? '' he answer , `` that mean twelve murderer , who eat the raven and die of it . '' when she know the answer to the riddle she want to steal away , but he hold she mantle so fast that she be force to leave it behind she . next morning , the King 's daughter announce that she have guess the riddle , and send for the twelve judge and expound it before they . but the youth beg for a hearing , and say , `` she steal into my room in the night and question I , otherwise she could not have discover it . '' the judge say , `` bring we a proof of this . '' then be the three mantle bring thither by the servant , and when the judge see the misty-grey one which the King 's daughter usually wear , they say , `` let the mantle be embroider with gold and silver , and then it will be you wedding-mantle .