192 the Master-Thief BrothersS Grimm one day a old man and he wife be sit in front of a miserable house rest a while from they work . suddenly a splendid carriage with four black horse come drive up , and a richly-dressed man descend from it . the peasant stand up , go to the great man , and ask what he want , and in what way he could be useful to he ? the stranger stretch out he hand to the old man , and say , `` I want nothing but to enjoy for once a country dish ; cook I some potato , in the way you always have they , and then I will sit down at you table and eat they with pleasure . '' the peasant smile and say , `` you be a count or a prince , or perhaps even a duke ; noble gentleman often have such fancy , but you shall have you wish . '' the wife go into the kitchen , and begin to wash and rub the potato , and to make they into ball , as they be eat by the country-folks . Whilst she be busy with this work , the peasant say to the stranger , `` come into my garden with I for a while , I have still something to do there . '' he have dig some hole in the garden , and now want to plant some tree in they . `` have you no child , '' ask the stranger , `` who could help you with you work ? '' `` no , '' answer the peasant , `` I have a son , it be true , but it be long since he go out into the world . he be a ne'er - do-well ; sharp , and know , but he would learn nothing and be full of bad trick , at last he run away from I , and since then I have hear nothing of he . '' the old man take a young tree , put it in a hole , drive in a post beside it , and when he have shovel in some earth and have trample it firmly down , he tie the stem of the tree above , below , and in the middle , fast to the post by a rope of straw . `` but tell I , '' say the stranger , `` why you do not tie that crooked knotted tree , which be lie in the corner there , bent down almost to the ground , to a post also that it may grow straight , as well as these ? '' the old man smile and say , `` Sir , you speak accord to you knowledge , it be easy to see that you be not familiar with gardening . that tree there be old , and mis-shapen , no one can make it straight now . Trees must be train while they be young . '' `` that be how it be with you son , '' say the stranger , `` if you have train he while he be still young , he would not have run away ; now he too must have grow hard and mis-shapen . '' `` truly it be a long time since he go away , '' reply the old man , `` he must have change . '' `` would you know he again if he be to come to you ? '' ask the stranger . `` hardly by he face , '' reply the peasant , `` but he have a mark about he , a birth-mark on he shoulder , that look like a bean . '' when he have say that the stranger pull off he coat , bare he shoulder , and show the peasant the bean . `` Good God ! '' cry the old man , `` Thou art really my son ! '' and love for he child stir in he heart . `` but , '' he add , `` how canst thou be my son , thou hast become a great lord and livest in wealth and luxury ? how hast thou contrived to do that ? '' `` ah , father , '' answer the son , `` the young tree be bind to no post and have grow crooked , now it be too old , it will never be straight again . how have I get all that ? I have become a thief , but do not be alarm , I be a master-thief . for I there be neither lock nor bolt , whatsoever I desire be mine . do not imagine that I steal like a common thief , I only take some of the superfluity of the rich . Poor people be safe , I would rather give to they than take anything from they . it be the same with anything which I can have without trouble , cunning and dexterity I never touch it . '' `` Alas , my son , '' say the father , `` it still do not please I , a thief be still a thief , I tell thee it will end badly . '' he take he to he mother , and when she hear that be she son , she weep for joy , but when he tell she that he have become a master-thief , two stream flow down over she face . at length she say , `` even if he have become a thief , he be still my son , and my eye have behold he once more . '' they sit down to table , and once again he eat with he parent the wretch food which he have not eat for so long . the father say , `` if we Lord , the count up there in the castle , learn who thou art , and what trade thou followest , he will not take thee in he arm and cradle thee in they as he do when he hold thee at the font , but will cause thee to swing from a halter . '' `` be easy , father , he will do I no harm , for I understand my trade . I will go to he myself this very day . '' when evening draw near , the master-thief seat himself in he carriage , and drive to the castle . the count receive he civilly , for he take he for a distinguished man . when , however , the stranger make himself know , the count turn pale and be quite silent for some time . at length he say , `` Thou art my godson , and on that account mercy shall take the place of justice , and I will deal leniently with thee . since thou pridest thyself on be a master-thief , I will put thy art to the proof , but if thou dost not stand the test , thou must marry the rope-maker 's daughter , and the croaking of the raven must be thy music on the occasion . '' `` Lord count , '' answer the master-thief , `` think of three thing , as difficult as you like , and if I do not perform you task , do with I what you will . '' the count reflect for some minute , and then say , `` well , then , in the first place , thou shalt steal the horse I keep for my own ride , out of the stable ; in the next , thou shalt steal the sheet from beneath the body of my wife and myself when we be asleep , without we observe it , and the wedding-ring of my wife as well ; thirdly and lastly , thou shalt steal away out of the church , the parson and clerk . Mark what I be say , for thy life depend on it . '' the master-thief go to the nearest town ; there he buy the clothes of a old peasant woman , and put they on . then he stain he face brown , and painted wrinkle on it as well , so that no one could have recognize he . then he fill a small cask with old Hungary wine in which be mix a powerful sleeping-drink . he put the cask in a basket , which he take on he back , and walk with slow and totter step to the count 's castle . it be already dark when he arrive . he sit down on a stone in the court-yard and begin to cough , like a asthmatic old woman , and to rub he hand as if he be cold . in front of the door of the stable some soldier be lie round a fire ; one of they observe the woman , and call out to she , `` come nearer , old mother , and warm thyself beside we . after all , thou hast no bed for the night , and must take one where thou canst find it . '' the old woman totter up to they , beg they to lift the basket from she back , and sit down beside they at the fire . `` what hast thou get in thy little cask , old lady ? '' ask one . `` a good mouthful of wine , '' she answer . `` I live by trade , for money and fair word I be quite ready to let you have a glass . '' `` let we have it here , then , '' say the soldier , and when he have taste one glass he say , `` when wine be good , I like another glass , '' and have another pour out for himself , and the rest follow he example . `` Hallo , comrade , '' cry one of they to those who be in the stable , `` here be a old goody who have wine that be as old as herself ; take a draught , it will warm you stomach far better than we fire . '' the old woman carry she cask into the stable . one of the soldier have seat himself on the saddle riding-horse , another hold its bridle in he hand , a third have lay hold of its tail . she pour out as much as they want until the spring run dry . it be not long before the bridle fall from the hand of the one , and he fall down and begin to snore , the other left hold of the tail , lay down and snore still louder . the one who be sit in the saddle , do remain sit , but bent he head almost down to the horse 's neck , and sleep and blow with he mouth like the bellows of a forge . the soldier outside have already be asleep for a long time , and be lie on the ground motionless , as if dead . when the master-thief see that he have succeed , he give the first a rope in he hand instead of the bridle , and the other who have be hold the tail , a wisp of straw , but what be he to do with the one who be sit on the horse 's back ? he do not want to throw he down , for he might have awaken and have utter a cry . he have a good idea , he unbuckle the girth of the saddle , tie a couple of rope which be hang to a ring on the wall fast to the saddle , and draw the sleep rider up into the air on it , then he twist the rope round the post , and make it fast . he soon unloose the horse from the chain , but if he have ride over the stony pavement of the yard they would have hear the noise in the castle . so he wrap the horse 's hoof in old rag , lead he carefully out , leap upon he , and gallop off . when day break , the master gallop to the castle on the steal horse . the count have just get up , and be look out of the window . `` good morning , Sir Count , '' he cry to he , `` here be the horse , which I have get safely out of the stable ! just look , how beautifully you soldier be lie there sleep ; and if you will but go into the stable , you will see how comfortable you watcher have make it for themselves . '' the count could not help laughing , then he say , `` for once thou hast succeed , but thing will not go so well the second time , and I warn thee that if thou comest before I as a thief , I will handle thee as I would a thief . '' when the countess go to bed that night , she close she hand with the wedding-ring tightly together , and the count say , `` all the door be lock and bolt , I will keep awake and wait for the thief , but if he get in by the window , I will shoot he . '' the master-thief , however , go in the dark to the gallows , cut a poor sinner who be hang there down from the halter , and carry he on he back to the castle . then he set a ladder up to the bedroom , put the dead body on he shoulder , and begin to climb up . when he have get so high that the head of the dead man show at the window , the count , who be watch in he bed , fire a pistol at he , and immediately the master let the poor sinner fall down , and hide himself in one corner . the night be sufficiently light by the moon , for the master to see distinctly how the count get out of the window on to the ladder , come down , carry the dead body into the garden , and begin to dig a hole in which to lay it . `` now , '' think the thief , `` the favourable moment have come , '' steal nimbly out of he corner , and climb up the ladder straight into the countess 's bedroom . `` dear wife , '' he begin in the count 's voice , `` the thief be dead , but , after all , he be my godson , and have be more of a scape-grace than a villain . I will not put he to open shame ; besides , I be sorry for the parent . I will bury he myself before daybreak , in the garden that the thing may not be know , so give I the sheet , I will wrap up the body in it , and bury he as a dog burry thing by scratch . '' the countess give he the sheet . `` I tell you what , '' continue the thief , `` I have a fit of magnanimity on I , give I the ring too , -- the unhappy man risk he life for it , so he may take it with he into he grave . '' she would not gainsay the count , and although she do it unwillingly she draw the ring from she finger , and give it to he . the thief make off with both these thing , and reach home safely before the count in the garden have finish he work of bury . what a long face the count do pull when the master come next morning , and bring he the sheet and the ring . `` Art thou a wizard ? '' say he , `` who have fetch thee out of the grave in which I myself lay thee , and bring thee to life again ? '' `` you do not bury I , '' say the thief , `` but the poor sinner on the gallows , '' and he tell he exactly how everything have happen , and the count be force to own to he that he be a clever , crafty thief . `` but thou hast not reach the end yet , '' he add , `` thou hast still to perform the third task , and if thou dost not succeed in that , all be of no use . '' the master smile and return no answer . when night have fall he go with a long sack on he back , a bundle under he arm , and a lantern in he hand to the village-church . in the sack he have some crab , and in the bundle short wax-candles . he sit down in the churchyard , take out a crab , and stick a wax-candle on he back . then he light the little light , put the crab on the ground , and let it creep about . he take a second out of the sack , and treat it in the same way , and so on until the last be out of the sack . Hereupon he put on a long black garment that look like a monk 's cowl , and stick a gray beard on he chin . when at last he be quite unrecognizable , he take the sack in which the crab have be , go into the church , and ascend the pulpit . the clock in the tower be just striking twelve ; when the last stroke have sound , he cry with a loud and pierce voice , `` Hearken , sinful man , the end of all thing have come ! the last day be at hand ! Hearken ! Hearken ! Whosoever wish to go to heaven with I must creep into the sack . I be Peter , who open and shut the gate of heaven . Behold how the dead outside there in the churchyard , be wander about collect they bone . come , come , and creep into the sack ; the world be about to be destroy ! '' the cry echo through the whole village . the parson and clerk who live nearest to the church , hear it first , and when they see the light which be move about the churchyard , they observe that something unusual be go on , and go into the church . they listen to the sermon for a while , and then the clerk nudge the parson and say , `` it would not be amiss if we be to use the opportunity together , and before the dawn of the last day , find a easy way of get to heaven . '' `` to tell the truth , '' answer the parson , `` that be what I myself have be think , so if you be incline , we will set out on we way . '' `` yes , '' answer the clerk , `` but you , the pastor , have the precedence , I will follow . '' so the parson go first , and ascend the pulpit where the master open he sack . the parson creep in first , and then the clerk . the master immediately tie up the sack tightly , seize it by the middle , and drag it down the pulpit-steps , and whenever the head of the two fool bump against the step , he cry , `` we be go over the mountain . '' then he draw they through the village in the same way , and when they be pass through puddle , he cry , `` now we be go through wet cloud . '' and when at last he be drag they up the step of the castle , he cry , `` now we be on the step of heaven , and will soon be in the outer court . '' when he have get to the top , he push the sack into the pigeon-house , and when the pigeon flutter about , he say , `` Hark how glad the angel be , and how they be flap they wing ! '' then he bolt the door upon they , and go away . next morning he go to the count , and tell he that he have perform the third task also , and have carry the parson and clerk out of the church . `` where hast thou leave they ? '' ask the lord . `` they be lie upstairs in a sack in the pigeon-house , and imagine that they be in heaven . '' the count go up himself , and convince himself that the master have tell the truth . when he have deliver the parson and clerk from they captivity , he say , `` Thou art a arch-thief , and hast win thy wager . for once thou escapest with a whole skin , but see that thou leavest my land , for if ever thou settest foot on it again , thou may ` st count on thy elevation to the gallows . '' the arch-thief take leave of he parent , once more go forth into the wide world , and no one have ever hear of he since .