135 the White Bride and the Black one Brothers Grimm A WOMAN be go about the unenclosed land with she daughter and she step-daughter cut fodder , when the Lord come walk towards they in the form of a poor man , and ask , `` which be the way into the village ? '' `` if you want to know , '' say the mother , `` seek it for yourself , '' and the daughter add , `` if you be afraid you will not find it , take a guide with you . '' but the step-daughter say , `` Poor man , I will take you there , come with I . '' then God be angry with the mother and daughter , and turn he back on they , and wish that they should become as black as night and as ugly as sin . to the poor step-daughter , however , God be gracious , and go with she , and when they be near the village , he say a blessing over she , and spake , `` choose three thing for thyself , and I will grant they to thee . '' then say the maiden , `` I should like to be as beautiful and fair as the sun , '' and instantly she be white and fair as day . `` then I should like to have a purse of money which would never grow empty . '' that the Lord give she also , but he say , `` do not forget what be best of all . '' Said she , `` for my third wish , I desire , after my death , to inhabit the eternal kingdom of Heaven . '' that also be grant unto she , and then the Lord leave she . when the step-mother come home with she daughter , and they see that they be both as black as coal and ugly , but that the step-daughter be white and beautiful , wickedness increase still more in they heart , and they think of nothing else but how they could do she a injury . the step-daughter , however , have a brother call Reginer , whom she love much , and she tell he all that have happen . once on a time Reginer say to she , `` dear sister , I will take thy likeness , that I may continually see thee before mine eye , for my love for thee be so great that I should like always to look at thee . '' then she answer , `` but , I pray thee , let no one see the picture . '' so he paint he sister and hang up the picture in he room ; he , however , dwelt in the King 's palace , for he be he coachman . every day he go and stand before the picture , and thank God for the happiness of have such a dear sister . now it happen that the King whom he serve , have just lose he wife , who have be so beautiful that no one could be find to compare with she , and on this account the King be in deep grief . the attendant about the court , however , remark that the coachman stand daily before this beautiful picture , and they be jealous of he , so they inform the King . then the latter order the picture to be bring to he , and when he see that it be like he lost wife in every respect , except that it be still more beautiful , he fall mortally in love with it . he cause the coachman to be bring before he , and ask whom the portrait represent ? the coachman say it be he sister , so the King resolve to take no one but she as he wife , and give he a carriage and horse and splendid garment of cloth of gold , and send he forth to fetch he chosen bride . when Reginer come on this errand , he sister be glad , but the black maiden be jealous of she good fortune , and grow angry above all measure , and say to she mother , `` of what use be all you art to we now when you can not procure such a piece of luck for I ? '' `` be quiet , '' say the old woman , `` I will soon divert it to you , '' and by she art of witchcraft , she so trouble the eye of the coachman that he be half-blind , and she stop the ear of the white maiden so that she be half-deaf . then they get into the carriage , first the bride in she noble royal apparel , then the step-mother with she daughter , and Reginer sit on the box to drive . when they have be on the way for some time the coachman cry , `` Cover thee well , my sister dear , that the rain may not wet thee , that the wind may not load thee with dust , that thou may ` st be fair and beautiful when thou appearest before the King . '' the bride ask , `` what be my dear brother say ? '' `` ah , '' say the old woman , `` he say that you ought to take off you golden dress and give it to you sister . '' then she take it off , and put it on the black maiden , who give she in exchange for it a shabby gray gown . they drive onward , and a short time afterwards , the brother again cry , `` Cover thee well , my sister dear , that the rain may not wet thee , that the wind may not load thee with dust , that thou may ` st be fair and beautiful when thou appearest before the King . '' the bride ask , `` what be my dear brother say ? '' `` ah , '' say the old woman , `` he say that you ought to take off you golden hood and give it to you sister . '' so she take off the hood and put it on she sister , and sit with she own head uncover . and they drive on farther . after a while , the brother once more cried , `` Cover thee well , my sister dear , that the rain may not wet thee , that the wind may not load thee with dust , that thou may ` st be fair and beautiful when thou appearest before the King . '' the bride ask , `` what be my dear brother say ? '' `` ah , '' say the old woman , `` he say you must look out of the carriage . '' they be , however , just on a bridge , which cross deep water . when the bride stand up and lean forward out of the carriage , they both push she out , and she fall into the middle of the water . at the same moment that she sink , a snow-white duck arise out of the mirror-smooth water , and swim down the river . the brother have observe nothing of it , and drive the carriage on until they reach the court . then he take the black maiden to the King as he sister , and think she really be so , because he eye be dim , and he see the golden garment glitter . when the King see the boundless ugliness of he intended bride , he be very angry , and order the coachman to be throw into a pit which be full of adder and nest of snake . the old witch , however , know so well how to flatter the King and deceive he eye by she art , that he keep she and she daughter until she appear quite endurable to he , and he really marry she . one evening when the black bride be sit on the King 's knee , a white duck come swim up the gutter to the kitchen , and say to the kitchen-boy , `` Boy , light a fire , that I may warm my feather . '' the kitchen-boy do it , and light a fire on the hearth . then come the duck and sit down by it , and shake herself and smooth she feather to rights with she bill . while she be thus sit and enjoy herself , she ask , `` what be my brother reginer do ? '' the scullery-boy reply , `` he be imprison in the pit with adder and with snake . '' then she ask , `` what be the black witch do in the house ? '' the boy answer , `` she be love by the King and happy . '' `` May God have mercy on he , '' say the duck , and swim forth by the sink . the next night she come again and put the same question , and the third night also . then the kitchen-boy could bear it no longer , and go to the King and discover all to he . the King , however , want to see it for himself , and next evening go thither , and when the duck thrust she head in through the sink , he take he sword and cut through she neck , and suddenly she change into a most beautiful maiden , exactly like the picture , which she brother have make of she . the King be full of joy , and as she stand there quite wet , he cause splendid apparel to be bring and have she clothe in it . then she tell how she have be betray by cunning and falsehood , and at last throw down into the water , and she first request be that she brother should be bring forth from the pit of snake , and when the King have fulfil this request , he go into the chamber where the old witch be , and ask , what do she deserve who do this and that ? and relate what have happen . then be she so blind that she be aware of nothing and say , `` she deserve to be strip naked , and put into a barrel with nail , and that a horse should be harness to the barrel , and the horse send all over the world . '' all of which be do to she , and to she black daughter . but the King marry the white and beautiful bride , and reward she faithful brother , and make he a rich and distinguished man .