the story of the man who do not wish to die . Japanese Writer Long , long ago there live a man call Sentaro . he surname mean `` Millionaire , '' but although he be not so rich as all that , he be still very far remove from be poor . he have inherit a small fortune from he father and live on this , spend he time carelessly , without any serious thought of work , till he be about thirty-two year of age . one day , without any reason whatsoever , the thought of death and sickness come to he . the idea of fall ill or die make he very wretch . `` I should like to live , '' he say to himself , `` till I be five or six hundred year old at least , free from all sickness . the ordinary span of a man 's life be very short . '' he wonder whether it be possible , by live simply and frugally henceforth , to prolong he life as long as he wish . he know there be many story in ancient history of emperor who have live a thousand year , and there be a Princess of Yamato , who , it be say , live to the age of five hundred this be the latest story of a very long life record . Sentaro have often hear the tale of the Chinese King name shin-no - Shiko . he be one of the most able and powerful ruler in chinese history . he build all the large palace , and also the famous great wall of China . he have everything in the world he could wish for , but in spite of all he happiness and the luxury and the splendor of he Court , the wisdom of he councilor and the glory of he reign , he be miserable because he know that one day he must die and leave it all . when Shin-no-Shiko go to bed at night , when he rise in the morning , as he go through he day , the thought of death be always with he . he could not get away from it . ah -- if only he could find the `` elixir of Life , '' he would be happy . the Emperor at last call a meeting of he courtier and ask they all if they could not find for he the `` elixir of Life '' of which he have so often read and hear . one old courtier , Jofuku by name , say that far away across the sea there be a country call Horaizan , and that certain hermit live there who possess the secret of the `` elixir of Life . '' whoever drank of this wonderful draught live forever . the Emperor order Jofuku to set out for the land of Horaizan , to find the hermit , and to bring he back a phial of the magic elixir . he give Jofuku one of he best junk , fit it out for he , and load it with great quantity of treasure and precious stone for Jofuku to take as present to the hermit . Jofuku sail for the land of Horaizan , but he never return to the wait Emperor ; but ever since that time Mount Fuji have be say to be the fabled Horaizan and the home of hermit who have the secret of the elixir , and Jofuku have be worship as they patron god . now Sentaro determine to set out to find the hermit , and if he could , to become one , so that he might obtain the water of perpetual life . he remember that as a child he have be tell that not only do these hermit live on Mount Fuji , but that they be say to inhabit all the very high peak . so he leave he old home to the care of he relative , and start out on he quest . he travel through all the mountainous region of the land , climb to the top of the highest peak , but never a hermit do he find . at last , after wander in a unknown region for many day , he meet a hunter . `` can you tell I , '' ask Sentaro , `` where the hermit live who have the elixir of Life ? '' `` no. '' say the hunter ; `` I can not tell you where such hermit live , but there be a notorious robber living in these part . it be say that he be chief of a band of two hundred follower . '' this odd answer irritated Sentaro very much , and he think how foolish it be to waste more time in look for the hermit in this way , so he decide to go at once to the shrine of Jofuku , who be worship as the patron god of the hermit in the south of Japan . Sentaro reach the shrine and pray for seven day , entreat Jofuku to show he the way to a hermit who could give he what he want so much to find . at midnight of the seventh day , as Sentaro knelt in the temple , the door of the innermost shrine fly open , and Jofuku appear in a luminous cloud , and call to Sentaro to come nearer , speak thus : `` you desire be a very selfish one and can not be easily grant . you think that you would like to become a hermit so as to find the elixir of Life . do you know how hard a hermit 's life be ? a hermit be only allow to eat fruit and berry and the bark of pine tree ; a hermit must cut himself off from the world so that he heart may become as pure as gold and free from every earthly desire . gradually after follow these strict rule , the hermit cease to feel hunger or cold or heat , and he body become so light that he can ride on a crane or a carp , and can walk on water without get he foot wet . '' `` you , Sentaro , be fond of good living and of every comfort . you be not even like a ordinary man , for you be exceptionally idle , and more sensitive to heat and cold than most people . you would never be able to go barefoot or to wear only one thin dress in the winter time ! Do you think that you would ever have the patience or the endurance to live a hermit 's life ? '' `` in answer to you prayer , however , I will help you in another way . I will send you to the country of perpetual Life , where death never come -- where the people live forever ! '' say this , Jofuku put into Sentaro 's hand a little crane make of paper , tell he to sit on its back and it would carry he there . Sentaro obey wonderingly . the crane grow large enough for he to ride on it with comfort . it then spread its wing , rise high in the air , and fly away over the mountain right out to sea . Sentaro be at first quite frightened ; but by degree he grow accustomed to the swift flight through the air . on and on they go for thousand of mile . the bird never stop for rest or food , but as it be a paper bird it doubtless do not require any nourishment , and strange to say , neither do Sentaro . after several day they reach a island . the crane fly some distance inland and then alight . as soon as Sentaro get down from the bird 's back , the crane fold up of its own accord and fly into he pocket . now Sentaro begin to look about he wonderingly , curious to see what the country of perpetual life be like . he walk first round about the country and then through the town . everything be , of course , quite strange , and different from he own land . but both the land and the people seem prosperous , so he decide that it would be good for he to stay there and take up lodgings at one of the hotel . the proprietor be a kind man , and when Sentaro tell he that he be a stranger and have come to live there , he promise to arrange everything that be necessary with the governor of the city concern Sentaro 's sojourn there . he even find a house for he guest , and in this way Sentaro obtain he great wish and become a resident in the country of perpetual life . within the memory of all the islander no man have ever die there , and sickness be a thing unknown . priest have come over from India and China and tell they of a beautiful country call Paradise , where happiness and bliss and contentment fill all man 's heart , but its gate could only be reach by die . this tradition be hand down for age from generation to generation -- but none know exactly what death be except that it lead to Paradise . quite unlike Sentaro and other ordinary people , instead of have a great dread of death , they all , both rich and poor , long for it as something good and desirable . they be all tire of they long , long life , and long to go to the happy land of contentment call Paradise of which the priest have tell they century ago . all this sentaro soon find out by talk to the islander . he find himself , accord to he idea , in the land of Topsyturvydom . everything be upside down . he have wish to escape from die . he have come to the land of perpetual life with great relief and joy , only to find that the inhabitant themselves , doom never to die , would consider it bliss to find death . what he have hitherto consider poison these people eat as good food , and all the thing to which he have be accustom as food they reject . Whenever any merchant from other country arrive , the rich people rush to they eager to buy poison . these they swallow eagerly , hope for death to come so that they might go to Paradise . but what be deadly poison in other land be without effect in this strange place , and people who swallow they with the hope of die , only find that in a short time they feel better in health instead of worse . vainly they try to imagine what death could be like . the wealthy would have give all they money and all they goods if they could but shorten they life to two or three hundred year even . without any change to live on forever seem to this people wearisome and sad . in the chemist shop there be a drug which be in constant demand , because after use it for a hundred year , it be suppose to turn the hair slightly gray and to bring about disorder of the stomach . Sentaro be astonish to find that the poisonous globe-fish be serve up in restaurant as a delectable dish , and hawker in the street go about sell sauce make of Spanish fly . he never see any one ill after eat these horrible thing , nor do he ever see any one with as much as a cold . Sentaro be delighted . he say to himself that he would never grow tired of living , and that he consider it profane to wish for death . he be the only happy man on the island . for he part he wish to live thousand of year and to enjoy life . he set himself up in business , and for the present never even dream of go back to he native land . as year go by , however , thing do not go as smoothly as at first . he have heavy loss in business , and several time some affair go wrong with he neighbor . this cause he great annoyance . Time pass like the flight of a arrow for he , for he be busy from morning till night . three hundred year go by in this monotonous way , and then at last he begin to grow tired of life in this country , and he long to see he own land and he old home . however long he live here , life would always be the game , so be it not foolish and wearisome to stay on here forever ? Sentaro , in he wish to escape from the country of perpetual Life , recollect Jofuku , who have help he before when he be wish to escape from death -- and he pray to the saint to bring he back to he own land again . no sooner do he pray than the paper crane pop out of he pocket . Sentaro be amaze to see that it have remain undamaged after all these year . once more the bird grow and grow till it be large enough for he to mount it . as he do so , the bird spread its wing and fly , swiftly out across the sea in the direction of Japan . such be the willfulness of the man 's nature that he look back and regret all he have leave behind . he try to stop the bird in vain . the crane hold on its way for thousand of mile across the ocean . then a storm come on , and the wonderful paper crane get damp , crumple up , and fall into the sea . Sentaro fall with it . very much frighten at the thought of be drown , he cry out loudly to Jofuku to save he . he look round , but there be no ship in sight . he swallow a quantity of sea-water , which only increase he miserable plight . while he be thus struggle to keep himself afloat , he see a monstrous shark swimming towards he . as it come nearer it open its huge mouth ready to devour he . Sentaro be all but paralyze with fear now that he feel he end so near , and scream out as loudly as ever he could to Jofuku to come and rescue he . Lo , and behold , Sentaro be awaken by he own scream , to find that during he long prayer he have fall asleep before the shrine , and that all he extraordinary and frightful adventure have be only a wild dream . he be in a cold perspiration with fright , and utterly bewilder . suddenly a bright light come towards he , and in the light stand a messenger . the messenger hold a book in he hand , and speak to Sentaro : `` I be send to you by Jofuku , who in answer to you prayer , have permit you in a dream to see the land of perpetual life . but you grow weary of live there , and beg to be allow to return to you native land so that you might die . Jofuku , so that he might try you , allow you to drop into the sea , and then send a shark to swallow you up . you desire for death be not real , for even at that moment you cry out loudly and shout for help . '' `` it be also vain for you to wish to become a hermit , or to find the elixir of Life . these thing be not for such as you -- you life be not austere enough . it be best for you to go back to you paternal home , and to live a good and industrious life . never neglect to keep the anniversary of you ancestor , and make it you duty to provide for you child 's future . thus will you live to a good old age and be happy , but give up the vain desire to escape death , for no man can do that , and by this time you have surely find out that even when selfish desire be grant they do not bring happiness . '' `` in this book I give you there be many precept good for you to know -- if you study they , you will be guide in the way I have point out to you . '' the angel disappear as soon as he have finish speaking , and Sentaro take the lesson to heart . with the book in he hand he return to he old home , and give up all he old vain wish , try to live a good and useful life and to observe the lesson teach he in the book , and he and he house prosper henceforth .