the LITTLE DOG La Fontain the key , which ope the chest of hoarded gold . unlock the heart that favor would withhold . to this the god of love have oft recourse , when arrow fail to reach the secret source , and I 'll maintain he be right , for , ` mong mankind , Nice present ev ` ry where we please find ; KingsS , prince , potentate , receive the same , and when a lady think she be not to blame , to do what custom tolerate around ; when Venus ' act be only ThemisS ' find , I 'll nothing ` gainst she say ; more fault than one , besides the present , have they course begin . a MANTUAN judge espouse a beauteous fair : she name be Argia : -- Anselm be she care , a age dotard , tremble with alarm , while she be young , and bless with seraph charm . but , not content with such a please prize , he jealousy appear without disguise , which greater admiration round she draw , who doubtless merit , in ev ` ry view , attention from the first in rank or place so elegant she form , so fine she face . ` twould endless prove , and nothing would avail , each lover 's pain minutely to detail : they art and wiles ; enough ` twill be no doubt , to say the lady 's heart be find so stout , she let they sigh they precious hour away , and scarcely seem emotion to betray . while at the judge 's , Cupid be employ , some weighty thing the Mantuan state annoy , of such importance , that the ruler mean , a embassy should to the Pope be send . as Anselm be a judge of high degree , no one so well embassador could be . 'twa with reluctance he agree to go , and be at Rome they mighty Plenipo ' ; the business would be long , and he must dwell six month or more abroad , he could not tell . though great the honor , he should leave he dive , which would be painful to connubial love . Long embassy and journey far from home oft cuckoldom around induce to roam . the husband , full of fear about he wife ; Exclaimed -- my ever -- darling , precious life , I must away ; adieu , be faithful pray , to one whose heart from you can never stray but swear to I , my duck , -lrb-B- for , truth to tell , I have reason to be jealous of my belle , -rrb-B- now swear these spark , whose ardor I perceive , have sigh without success , and I 'll believe . but still you honor better to secure , from slander 's tongue , and virtue to ensure , I would have you to we country-house repair ; the city quit : -- these sly gallants beware ; they present too , accurst invention find , with danger fraught , and ever much renowned ; for always in the world , where lover move , these gift the parent of assentment prove . ` Gainst those declare at once ; nor lend a ear to flattery , they cunning sister-peer . if they approach , shut straight both ear and eye ; for nothing you shall want that wealth supplies ; my store you may command ; the key behold , where I have deposit my note and gold . receive my rent ; expend whate'er you please ; I 'll look for no account ; live quite at ease ; I shall be satisfy with what you do , if naught therein to raise a blush I view ; you have full permission to amuse you mind ; you love , howe'er , for I alone 's design ; that , recollect , must be for my return , for which we bosom will with ardor burn . the good man 's bounty seemingly be sweet ; all pleasure , one except , she might greet ; but that , alas ! by bosom unpossessed , no happiness arise from the rest : he lady promise ev ` ry thing require : -- deaf , blind , and cruel , -- whosoe'er admire ; and not a present would she hand receive at he return , he fully might believe , she would be find the same as when he go , without gallant , or aught to discontent . HER husband go , she presently retire where Anselm have so earnestly desire ; the lover come , but they be soon dismiss , and tell , from visit they must all desist ; they assiduity be irksome grow , and she be weary of they lovesick tone . Save one , they all be odious to the fair ; a handsome youth , with smart engaging air ; but whose attention to the belle be vain ; in spite of art , he aim he could not gain ; he name be Atis , know to love and arm , who grudge no pain , could he possess she charm . each wile he try , and if he would keep to sigh , no doubt the source be one that never dry ; but often diff ` rent with expense ` ti find ; he wealth be waste rapidly around he wretch grow ; at length for debt he flee , and seek a desert to conceal he head . as on the road he move , a clown he meet , who with he stick a adder try to get , from out a thicket , where it hiss lay , and hope to drive the countryman away : we knight he object ask ; the clown reply , to slay the reptile anxiously I try ; Wherever meet , a adder I would kill : the race should be extinct if I would my will . why would ` st thou , friend , say Atis , these destroy ? God mean that all should freely life enjoy . the youthful knight for reptile have , we find , less dread than what prevail with human kind ; he bear they in he arm : -- they mark he birth ; from noble Cadmus spring , who , when on earth , at last , to serpent be in age transform ; the adder 's bush the clown no longer storm ; no more the spotted reptile seek to stay , but seize the time , and quickly creep away . AT length we lover to a wood retire ; to live conceal be what the youth desire ; Lorn silence reign , except from bird that sing , and dell that oft with sweetest echo ring . there HAPPINESS and frightful MIS ` RY lay , quite undistinguished : class with beast of prey ; that growl prowl in search of food around : there ati consolation never find . love thither follow , and , however view , 'twa vain to hope he passion to elude ; Retirement feed the tender , ardent flame , and irksome ev ` ry minute soon become . let we return , cry he , since such we fate : ` tis better , Atis , bear she frown and hate , than of she beauteous feature lose the view ; Ye nightingale and stream , ye wood adieu ! when far from she I neither see nor hear : ` Tis she alone my sens still revere ; a slave I be , who flee she dire disdain ; yet seek once more to wear the cruel chain . as near some noble wall we knight arrive , which fairy-hands to raise have once contrived , he eye beheld , at peep of early morn , when bright Aurora 's beam the earth adorn , a beauteous nymph in royal robe attire , of noble mien , and form to be admire , who t ` ward he draw , with pleasing , gracious air , while he be wrap in thought , a prey to care . say she , I would have you , Atis , happy be ; ` Tis in my pow ` r , and this I hope to see ; a fairy greet I , Manto be my name : -- you friend , and one you have serve unknown : -- the same my fame you have hear , no doubt ; from I proceed the Mantuan town , renown for ancient deed ; in day of yore I these foundation lay , which in duration , equal I have make , to those of Memphis , where the Nile 's proud course majestically flow from hidden source . the cruel Parcae be to we unknown ; we wond ` rous magick pow ` r have often show ; but wretch , spite of this , appear we lot Death never come , though various ill we have get , for we to human malady be prone , and suffer greatly oft , I freely own . once , in each week to serpent we be change ; do you remember how you here arrange , to save a adder from a clown 's attack ? 'twa I , the furious rustick wish to hack , when you assist I to get away ; for recompense , my friend , without delay , I 'll you procure the kindness of the fair , who make you love and drive you to despair : we 'll go and see she : -- be assure from I , before two day be pass , as I foresee , you 'll gain , by present , Argia and the rest , who round she watch , and be the suitor 's pest . Grudge no expense , be gen ` rous , and be bold , you handful scatter , lavish be of gold . assure you shall not want the precious ore ; for I command the whole of Plutus ' store , Preserved , to please I , in the shades below ; this charmer soon we magick pow ` r shall know . the better to approach the cruel belle , and to you suit she prompt consent compel , Myself transform you 'll presently perceive ; and , as a little dog , I 'll much achieve , around and round I 'll gambol o ` er the lawn , and ev ` ry way attempt to please and fawn , while you , a pilgrim , shall the bag-pipe play ; come , bring I to the dame without delay . no sooner say , the lover quickly change , together with the fairy , as arrange ; a pilgrim he , like Orpheus , pipe and sing ; while Manto , as a dog , skipt , jump , and spring . THEY thus proceed to the beauteous dame ; soon valet , maid , and other round they come ; the dog and pilgrim give extreme delight and all be quite divert at the sight . the lady hear the noise , and send she maid , to learn the reason why they romp and play : she soon return and tell the lovely belle , a spaniel dance , and even speak so well , it ev ` ry thing could fully understand , and show obedience to the least command . ` twere better come herself and take a view : the thing be wond ` rous that the dog could do . the dame at any price the dog would buy , in case the master should the boon deny . to give the dog we pilgrim be desire ; but though he would not grant the thing require ; he whisper to the maid the price he would take , and some proposal be induce to make . Said he , ` tis true , the creature 's not for sale ; nor would I give it : prayer will ne'er prevail ; Whate'er I chance to want from day to day , it furnish without the least delay . to have my wish , three word alone I use , its paw I squeeze , and whatsoe'er I choose , of gold , or jewel , fall upon the ground ; Search all the world , there be nothing like it find . you lady 's rich , and money do not want ; Howe'er , my little dog to she I 'll grant if she 'll a night permit I in she bed , the treasure shall at once to she be lead . the maid at this proposal feel surprise ; she mistress truly ! less might well suffice ; a paltry knave ! cry she , it make I laugh ; what ! take within she bed a pilgrim 's staff ! be such a circumstance abroad to get , my lady would with ridicule be meet ; the dog and master , probably , be last beneath a hedge , or on a dunghill cast ; a house like this they 'll never see agen ; -- but then the master be the pride of man , and that in love be ev ` ry thing we find much wealth and beauty please all womankind ! he feature and he mien the knight have change ; each air and look for conquest be arrange . the maid exclaim : when such a lover sue , how can a woman any thing refuse ? besides the pilgrim have a dog , ` ti plain , not all the wealth of China could obtain . yet to possess my lady for a night , would to the master be supreme delight : I should have mention , that we cunning spark ; the dog would whisper -lrb-B- feign some remark , -rrb-B- on which ten ducat tumble at he foot ; these Atis give the maid , -lrb-B- O deed discreet ; -rrb-B- then fall a diamond : this we wily wight take up , and smile at the precious sight , say he , what now I hold I beg you 'll bear , to she you serve , so worthy of you care ; Present my compliment , and to she say , I be she devoted servant from to-day . THU female quickly to she mistress go ; we charming little dog to represent : the various pow ` r display , and wonder do ; yet scarcely have she on the knight begin , and mention what he wish she to unfold , but Argia could she rage no longer hold ; a fellow ! to presume , cry she , to speak of I with freedom ! -- I be not so weak , to listen to such infamy , not I a pilgrim too ! -- no , you may well rely , E ` en be he Atis , it would be the same , to whom I now my cruel conduct blame : such thing he never would to I propose ; not e ` en a monarch would the like disclose ; I be ` bove temptation , present would not do : -- not Plutus ' store , if offer to my view ; a paltry pilgrim to presume indeed , to think that I would such a blackguard heed , Ambassadress my rank ! and to admit a fellow , only for the gallows fit ! THIS pilgrim , cry the maid , have get the means not only belle to get , but even queen ; or beauteous goddess he could obtain : -- he be worth a thousand Atis 's ` ti plain . Bur , say the wife , my husband make I vow . what ? cry the maid , you would not bedeck he brow ! a pretty promise truly : -- can you think , you less from this , than from the first , should shrink ? who 'll know the fact , or publish it around ? consider well , how many might be find , who , be they mark with spot upon the nose , when thing have take place that we suppose , would not they head so very lofty place , I be well assure , but feel they own disgrace . for such a thing , be we the worse a hair ? no , no , good lady , who presume to swear , he can discern the lip which have be press , by those that never have the fact confess , must be possess of penetrate eye , which pierce the sable veil of dark disguise . this favor , whether you accord or not , ` Twill not a whit be less nor more a blot . for whom , I pray , LOVE 's treasure would you hoard ? for one , who never will a treat afford , or what be much the same , have not the pow ` r ? all he may want you 'll give he in a hour , at he return ; he be very weak and old , and , doubtless , ev ` ry way be icy cold ! the cunning girl such rhetorick display , that all she say , she mistress , have weigh , Began to doubt alone , and not deny the spaniel 's art , and pilgrim 's pierce eye : to she the master and he dog be lead , to satisfy she mind while still in bed ; for bright Aurora , from the wat ` ry deep , not more reluctantly arise from sleep . our spark approach the dame with easy air , which seem the man of fashion to declare ; he compliment be make with ev ` ry grace , that mind most difficult could wish to trace . the fair be charm , and with he quite content ; you do not look , say she , like one who mean Saint James of Compostella soon to see , Though , doubtless , oft to saint you bend the knee . to entertain the smile beauteous dame , the dog , by various trick , confirm he flame , to please the maid and mistress he have in view : too much for these of course he could not do ; Though , for the husband , he would never move , the little fav ` rite seek again to prove he wond ` rous worth , and scattered o ` er the ground , with sudden shake , among the servant round , Nice pearl , which they on string arrange with care ; and these the pilgrim offer to the fair : Gallantly fasten they around she arm , admire they whiteness and extol she charm : so well he manage , 'twa at length agree , in what he heart desire he should succeed ; the dog be buy : the belle bestow a kiss , as earnest of the promised future bliss . the night arrive , when Atis fondly press , within he arm , the lady thus caress ; himself he suddenly become again , on which she scarcely could she joy contain : -- Th ' ambassador she more respect should show , than favor on a pilgrim to bestow . the fair and spark so much admire the night ; that other follow equal in delight ; each feel the same , for where 's the perfect shade ; that can conceal when joy like these pervade ? expression strongly mark the youthful face , and all that be not blind the truth can trace . some month have pass , when Anselm be dismiss ; of gift and pardon , long appear he list ; a load of honor from the Pope he get : -- the CHURCH will these most lib ` rally allot . from he vicegerent quickly he receive a good account , and friend he fear relieve ; the servant never dropt a single word of what have pass , but all to please concur . the judge , both maid and servant , question much ; but not a hint he get , they care be such . yet , as it often happen ` mong the FAIR , the devil enter on a sudden there ; such quarrel ` tween the maid and mistress rise , the former vow she would the tale disclose . revenge induce she ev ` ry thing to tell , though she be implicate with the belle . so great the husband 's rage , no word can speak : he fury somewhere he of course would wreak ; but , since to paint it clearly would be vain -- you 'll by the sequel judge he poignant pain . a SERVANT Anselm order to convey he wife a note , who be , without delay , to come to town she honor spouse to see ; extremely ill -lrb-B- for such he feign to be . -rrb-B- as yet the lady in the country stay ; she husband to and fro ' he visit pay . say he , remember , when upon the road , conduct Argia from she lone abode , you must contrive she man to get away , and with she none but you presume to stay . -- a jade ! she horn have plant on my brow : she death shall be the consequence I vow . with force a poinard in she bosom thrust ; Watch well th ' occasion : -- die , I say , she must , the deed perform , escape ; here 's for you aid ; the money take : -- pursuit you can evade ; as I request , proceed ; then trust to I : -- you naught shall want wherever you may be . to seek fair Argia instantly he go ; she , by she dog , be warn of he intent . how these can warn ? if ask , I shall reply , they grumble , bark , complain , or fawn , or sigh ; Pull petticoat or gown , and snarl at all , who happen in they way just then to fall ; but few so dull as not to comprehend ; Howe'er , this fav ` rite whisper to he friend , the danger that await she around ; but go , say he , protection you have find ; Confide in I : -- I 'll ev ` ry ill prevent , for which the rascal hither have be send . as on they move , a wood be in the way , where robber often wait for they prey ; the villain whom the husband have employ , sent forward those whose company annoy , and would prevent he execrable plan ; the last of horrid crime . -- disgrace to man ! no sooner have the wretch he order tell , but Argia vanish -- none could she behold ; the beauteous belle be quickly lose to view : a cloud , the fairy Manto o ` er she throw . THIS circumstance astonish much the wretch , who run to give we doat spouse a sketch of what have pass so strange upon the way ; Old Anselm thither go without delay , when , marvellous to think ! with great surprise , he see a palace of extensive size , erect where , a hour or two before , a hovel be not see , nor e ` en a door . the husband stand aghast ! -- admire the place , not build for man , e ` en god ` twould not disgrace . the room be gilt ; the decoration fine ; the garden and the pleasure-grounds divine ; such rich magnificence be never see ; Superb the whole , a charming bless demesne . the entrance ev ` ry way be open find ; but not a person could be view around , except a negro , hideous to behold , who much resemble AEsop , famed of old . OUR judge the negro for a porter take , who be the house to clean and overlook ; and take he for such , the black address , with full belief the title be the best , and that he greatly honor he , 'twa plain -lrb-B- of ev ` ry color man be proud and vain : -rrb-B- say he , my friend , what god this palace own ? too much it seem for those of earthly throne ; no king , of consequence enough could be ; the palace , cry the black , belong to I . the judge be instantly upon he knee , the negro 's pardon ask , and seek to please ; I trust , say he , my lord , you 'll overlook the fault I make : my ignorance mistook . the universe have not so nice a spot ; the world so beautiful a palace get ! dost wish I , say the black , the house to give , for thee and thine therein at ease to live ? on one condition thou shalt have the place for thee I seriously intend the grace , if thou ` lt on I a day or two attend , as page of honor : -- dost thou comprehend ? the custom know ` st thou -- better I 'll expound ; a cup-bearer with Jupiter be find , Thou ` st hear no doubt . Anselm what , Ganymede ? Negro the same ; and I be that Jupiter of mighty fame ; the chief supreme who rule above the sky ; be thou the lad with fascinating eye , though not so handsome , nor in truth so young . Anselm you jest , my lord ; to youth I do not belong ; ` tis very clear ; -- my judge 's dress -- my age ! Negro I jest ? thou dream ` st. anselm my lord ? Negro you will not engage ? just as you will : -- ` tis all the same you 'll find . Anselm My lord ! ... the learn judge himself resign , the black 's mysterious wish to obey ; -- Alas ! curst present , how they always weigh ! a page the magistrate be quickly see , in dress , in look , in age , in air , in mien ; he hat become a cap ; he beard alone remain unchanged ; the rest have wholly fly . thus metamorphose to a pretty boy , the judge proceed in the black 's employ . within a corner hide , Argia lay , and hear what Anselm have be lead to say . the Moor howe'er be Manto , most renowned , transformed , as oft the fairy we have find ; she build the charming palace by she art , -- now youthful feature would to age impart . AT length , as Anselm through a passage come , he suddenly behold he beauteous dame . what ! learn Anselm do I see , say she , in this disguise ? -- it surely can not be ; my eye deceive I : -- Anselm , grave and wise ; give such a lesson ? I be all surprise . ` TIS doubtless he : oh , oh ! we bald-pate sire ; Ambassador and judge , we must admire , to see you honor thus in masquerade : -- at you age , truly , suffer to be make a -- modesty deny my tongue its powr 's what ! -- you condemn to death for freak like ours ? you , whom I have find \*\*\* you understand -- for shame you crime be such as all must blush to name . though I may have a negro for gallant , and err when Atis for I seem to pant , he merit and the black 's superior rank , must lessen , if not quite excuse my prank . Howe'er , old boy , you presently shall see , if any belle solicit should be , to grant indulgency , with present sweet , she will not straight capitulation beat ; at least , if they be such as I have view : -- Moor , change to dog ; immediately ensue the metamorphose that the fair require , the black ` moor be again a dog admire . Dance , fav ` rite ; instantly he skip and play ; and to the judge he pretty paw convey . Spaniel , scatter gold ; presently there fall large sum of money , as the sound could tell . such strong temptation who can e ` er evade ? the dog a present to you wife be make . then show I , if you can , upon the earth , a queen , a princess , of the highest birth , who would not virtue presently concede , if such excuse for it she could plead ; particularly if the giver prove a handsome lad that elegantly move . I , TRULY , for the spaniel be exchange ; what you would too much of , freely I arrange , to grant away , this jewel to obtain my value 's nothing great , you think , ` ti plain ; and , surely , you would have think I very wrong , when such a prize I meet , to haggle long . 'twa he this palace raise ; but I have do ; remember , since you have yet a course to run , take care again how you command my death ; in spite of you design I draw my breath . though none but Atis with I have success , I now desire , he may lucretia bless , and wish she to surrender up she charm , -lrb-B- just like myself -rrb-B- to he extended arm . if you approve , we peace at once be make : if not -- while I have this dog I be not afraid , but you defy : I dread not sword nor bowl ; the little dog can warn I of the whole ; the jealous he confound ; be that no more ; such folly hence determine to give o ` er . if you , to put restraint on woman choose , you 'll sooner far they fond affection lose . the whole we judge concede ; -- could he less ? the secret of he recent change of dress be promise to be keep : and that unknown , E ` en cuckoldom again might there have fly . OUR couple mutual compensation make , then bade adieu to hill , and dale , and glade . SOME critick ask the handsome palace ' fate ; I answer : -- that , my friend , I sha not relate ; it disappear , no matter how nor when . why put such question ? -- strict be not my pen . the little dog , pray what of that become ? to serve the lover be he constant aim . and how be that ? -- you be troublesome my friend : the dog perhaps would more assistance lend ; on new intrigue he master might be bent ; with single conquest who be e ` er content ? the fav ` rite spaniel oft be miss find ; but when the little rogue have go he round , he would then return , as if from work relieve , to she who first he service receive . he fondness into fervent friendship grow ; as such gay Atis visit anew ; he often come , but Argia be sincere , and firmly to she vow would now adhere : Old Anselm too , have swear , by heav ` n above ; no more to be suspicious of he love ; and , if he ever page become again , to suffer punishment 's severest pain .