the OLD MAN be CALENDAR La Fontain OFT have I see in wedlock with surprise , that most forget from which true bliss would rise when marriage for a daughter be design , the parent solely riches seem to mind ; all other boon be leave to heav ` n above , and sweet SIXTEEN must sixty learn to love ! yet still in other thing they nicer seem , they chariot-horses and they oxen-team be truly match ; -- in height exact be these , while those each shade alike must have to please ; without the choice ` twere wonderful to find , or coach or wagon travel to they mind . the marriage journey full of care appear , when couple match in neither soul nor year ! a instance of the kind I 'll now detail : the feeling bosom will such lot bewail ! QUINZICA , -lrb-B- Richard -rrb-B- , as the story go , indulge he wife at ball , and feast , and show , expect other duty she would forget , in which howe'er he disappointment meet . a judge in Pisa , Richard be , it seem , in law most learn : wily in he scheme ; but silver beard and lock too clearly tell , he ought to have a wife of diff ` rent mould ; though he have take one of noble birth , quite young , most beautiful , and form for mirth , Bartholomea Galandi she name ; the lady 's parent be of rank and fame ; we judge herein have little wisdom show , and sneer friend around be often know to say , he child ne'er could father lack : at give counsel some have get a knack , who , be they but at home to turn they eye , Might find , perhaps , they be not so over-wise . QUINZICA , then perceive that he pow ` r Fell short of what a bird like he devour , T ` excuse himself and satisfy he dear , Pretended that , no day within the year , to Hymen , as a saint , be e ` er assign , in calendar , or book of any kind , when full attention to the god be pay : -- to age sire a nice convenient aid ; but this the sex by no mean fancy right ; few day to PLEASURE could he heart invite at time , the week entire he would have a fast ; at other , say the day ` mong saint be class , though no one ever hear its holy name ; -- fast ev ` ry Friday -- Saturday the same , since Sunday follow , consecrate day ; then Monday come : -- still he would abstain from play ; each morning find excuse , but solemn feast be day most sacred hold by all the priest ; on abstinence , then , Richard lecture read , and long before the time , be always lead by sense of right , from dainty to refrain : a period afterward would also gain ; the like observe before and after Lent ; and ev ` ry feast have get the same extent ; these time be gracious for we age man ; and never pass they be he constant plan . of patron saint he always have a list ; Th ' evangelist , apostle , none he miss would ; and that he scruple might have constant food ; some day malign , he say , be understand ; then foggy weather ; -- dog-days ' fervent heat : to seek excuse he be most complete , and ne'er asham would but manag would thing so well , four time a year , by special grace , they tell , we sage regal have he youthful bloom wife , a little with the sweet of marriage life . with this exception he be truly kind , fine dress , jewel , all to please she mind ; but these be bawble which alone controul those belle , like doll , mere body void of soul . Bartholomea be of diff ` rent clay ; she only pleasure -lrb-B- as we hist ` rie say -rrb-B- , to go in summer to the neighb ` ring coast , where she good spouse a charming house could boast , in which they take they lodging once a week ; at time they pleasure on the wave would seek , as fishing with the lady would agree , and she be wond ` rous partial to the sea , Though far to sail they always would refuse . one day it happen better to amuse , we couple diff ` rent fishing vessel take , and skimm have the wave to try who most could hook , of fish and pleasure ; and they lay a bet , the greatest number which of they should get . on board they have a man or two at most . and each the best adventure hop would to boast . a certain pirate soon observ would the ship , in which this charming lady make the trip , and presently attack 'd and seiz have the same ; but Richard 's bark to shore in safety come ; so near the land , or else he would not brave , to any great extent , the stormy wave , or that the robber think if both he take , he could not decently for favor look , and he preferr would those joy the FAIR bestow , to all the riches which to mortal flow . although a pirate , he have always show much honor in he act , as well be know ; but Cupid 's frolick be he heart 's delight : none truly brave can ever beauty slight ; a sailor 's always bold and kind and free , good lib ` ral fellow , such they 'll ever be ; ` mong saint indeed ` twere vain they name to seek ! the man be good howe'er of whom we speak ; he usual name be Pagamin Montegue ; for hour the lady 's scream be hear a league , while he each minute anxiously would seize , to cheer she spirit and she heart to please ; T ` attain he wish he ev ` ry art combine ; at length the lovely captive all resign . 'Twas Cupid conquer 'd , Cupid with he dart ; a thousand time more pirate in he art , than Pagamin ; on bleeding heart he prey , but little quarter give , nor grace display : to pay she ransom she would enough of gold ; for this she spouse be truly never cold ; no fast nor festival therein appear 'd , and she captivity he greatly fear 'd . this calendar o ` erspread with rubrick day ; she soon forget and learn would the pirate 's way ; the matrimonial zone aside be throw , and only mention where the fact be know : OUR lawyer would he finger sooner burn ; than have he wife but virtuous home return ; by means of gold he entertain would no doubt , she restoration might be bring about . a passport from the pirate he obtain 'd , then wait on he and he wish explain would ; to pay he offer would what soe'er he would ask ; he term accept , though hard perhaps the task ; the robber answer 'd , if my name around , be not for honorable act renown would , ` ti quite unjust : -- you partner I 'll restore in health , without a ransom : -- would you more ? a friendship so respect 'd , heav ` n forefend ! should ever , by my conduct , have a end . the fair , whom you so ardently admire , Shall to you arm return as you desire , such pleasure to a friend I would not sell ; Convince I that she be you 's , and all be well ; for if another I to you should give , -lrb-B- and many that I have take with I live , -rrb-B- I surely should incur a heavy blame ; I lately captur would one , a charming dame , with auburn lock , a little fat , tall , young ; if she declare she do to you belong , when you she be see , I will the belle concede ; you 'll take she instantly ; I 'll not impede . the sage reply , you conduct 's truly wise ; such wond ` rous kindness fill I with surprise ; but since ` ti say that every trade must live , the sum just mention : -- I 'll the ransom give ; no compliment I wish , my purse behold you know the money presently be tell ; consider I a stranger now I pray ; with you I would equal probity display , and so will act , I swear , as you shall see ; there be not a doubt the fair will go with I ; my word for this I would not have you take : -- you 'll see how happy ` twill the lady make to find I here ; to my embrace she 'll fly ; my only fear -- that she of joy will die . to they the charmer now be instant bring , who eye she husband as beneath a thought ; receive he coldly , just as if he would be a stranger from Peru , she ne'er have see . LOOK , say Quinzica , she be ashamed ` ti plain so many looker on she love restrain ; but be assure , if we be leave alone , around my neck she arm would soon be throw . if this , reply the pirate , you believe , attend she toilet : -- naught can then deceive . away they go , and closely shut the door ; when Richard say , thou darling of my store , how can ` st thou thus behave ? my pretty dive , ` Tis thy Quinzica , come to seek he love , in all the same , except about he wife ; Dost in this face a change observe my life ? ` Tis grieve for thy loss that make I ill ; do ever I in aught deny thy will ? in dress or play could any thee exceed ? and have ` st thou not whatever thou might ` st need ? to please thee , oft I make myself a slave ; such thou art now ; but thee again I crave . then what dost think about thy honor , dear ? -- Said she , with ire , I neither know nor fear ; be this a time to guard it , do you say ? what pain be show by any one , I pray ; when I be forc 'd to wed a man like you , Old , impotent , and hateful to the view , while I be young and bloom as the morn , deserve truly , something less forlorn , and seemingly intend to possess what Hymen best in store have get to bless ; for I be think by all the world around , most worthy ev ` ry bliss in wedlock find . yet thing take quite another turn with I in tune my husband never prove to be , except a feast or two throughout the year ; from Pagamin I meet a diff ` rent cheer ; another lesson presently he teach ; the life 's sweet pleasure more the pirate bring , in two short day , than e ` er I have from you in those four year that only you I know . PRAY leave I husband : -- let I have my will insist not on my living with you still ; no calendar with Pagamin be see -- far better treat with the man I have be . my other friend and you much worse deserve : the spouse , for take I when quite unnerved , and they , for give preference base to gold , to those pure joy -- far better thought than tell . but Pagamin in ev ` ry way can please ; and though no code he own , yet all be ease ; himself will tell you what have pass this morn , he action would a sov ` reign prince adorn . such information may excite surprise , but now the truth , ` twere useless to disguise , nothing will gain belief , we have no one near to witness we discourse : -- adieu , my dear , to all you festival -- I be flesh and blood : -- gem , dress , ornament , do little good ; you know full well , betwixt the head and heel , though little 's say , yet much we often feel . on this she stopt , and Richard dropt he chin , rejoice to ` scape from such unwelcome din . BARTHOLOMEA , please with what have pass ; no disposition show to hold he fast ; the downcast husband feel such poignant grief , with ill where age can scarcely hope relief , that soon he leave this busy stage of life , and Pagamin the widow take to wife . the deed be just , for neither of the two E ` er feel what oft in Richard rise to view ; from feeling proof arise they mutual choice ; and ` tween they ne'er be hear the jarring voice . BEHOLD a lesson for the age man ; who think , when old , to act as he begin ; but , if the sage a yielding dotard seem , he work be do by those the wife esteem ; complaint be never hear ; no thrilling fear ; and ev ` ry one around at ease appear .