the OLD BACHELOR be NIGHTCAP . H. C. Andersen there be a street in Copenhagen that have this strange name -- `` Hysken Straede . '' whence come this name , and what be its meaning ? it be say to be german ; but injustice have be do to the german in this matter , for it would have to be `` Haeuschen , '' and not `` Hysken . '' for here stand , once upon a time , and indeed for a great many year , a few little house , which be principally nothing more than wooden booth , just as we see now in the market-places at fair-time . they be , perhaps , a little larger , and have window ; but the pane consist of horn or bladder , for glass be then too expensive to be use in every house . but then we be speak of a long time ago -- so long since , that grandfather and great-grandfather , when they talk about they , use to speak of they as `` the old time '' -- in fact , it be several century ago . the rich merchant in Bremen and Lubeck carry on trade with Copenhagen . they do not reside in the town themselves , but send they clerk , who live in the wooden booth in the Haeuschen Street , and sell beer and spice . the german beer be good , and there be many kind of it , as there be , for instance , Bremen , and Prussinger , and sous beer , and even Brunswick mumm ; and quantity of spice be sell -- saffron , and aniseed , and ginger , and especially pepper . Yes , pepper be the chief article here , and so it happen that the german clerk get the nickname `` pepper gentry ; '' and there be a condition make with they in Lubeck and in Bremen , that they would not marry at Copenhagen , and many of they become very old . they have to care for themselves , and to look after they own comfort , and to put out they own fire -- when they have any ; and some of they become very solitary old boy , with eccentric idea and eccentric habit . from they all unmarried man , who have attain a certain age , be call in Denmark `` pepper gentry ; '' and this must be understand by all who wish to comprehend this history . the `` pepper gentleman '' become a butt for ridicule , and be continually tell that he ought to put on he nightcap , and draw it down over he eye , and do nothing but sleep . the boy sing , `` Cut , cut wood ! Poor bachelor so good . go , take you nightcap , go to rest , for ` tis the nightcap suit you best ! '' yes , that be what they sing about the `` pepperer '' -- thus they make game of the poor bachelor and he nightcap , and turn it into ridicule , just because they know very little about either . ah , that kind of nightcap no one should wish to earn ! and why not ? -- we shall hear . -lrb-B- illustration : the pepperer be BOOTH . aaaaa -rrb-B- aaa in the old time the `` Housekin Street '' be not pave , and the people stumble out of one hole into another , as in a neglect bye-way ; and it be narrow too . the booth lean side by side , and stand so close together that in the summer time a sail be often stretch from one booth to its opposite neighbor , on which occasion the fragrance of pepper , saffron , and ginger become doubly powerful . behind the counter young man be seldom see . the clerk be generally old boy ; but they do not look like what we should fancy they , namely , with wig , and nightcap , and plush small-clothes , and with waistcoat and coat button up to the chin . no , grandfather 's great-grandfather may look like that , and have be thus portray , but the `` pepper gentry '' have no superfluous means , and accordingly do not have they portrait take ; though , indeed , it would be interesting now to have a picture of one of they , as he stand behind the counter or go to church on holy day . he hat be high-crowned and broad-brimmed , and sometimes one of the youngest clerk would mount a feather . the woollen shirt be hide behind a broad linen collar , the close jacket be button up to the chin , and the cloak hang loose over it ; and the trousers be tuck into the broad-toed shoe , for the clerk do not wear stocking . in they girdle they sport a dinner-knife and spoon , and a larger knife be place there also for the defense of the owner ; and this weapon be often very necessary . just so be Anthony , one of the oldest clerk , clothe on high day and holy day , except that , instead of a high-crowned hat , he wear a low bonnet , and under it a knit cap -lrb-B- a regular nightcap -rrb-B- , to which he have grow so accustomed that it be always on he head ; and he have two of they -- nightcap , of course . the old fellow be a subject for a painter . he be as thin as a lath , have wrinkle cluster round he eye and mouth , and long bony finger , and bushy gray eyebrow : over the left eye hang quite a tuft of hair , and that do not look very handsome , though it make he very noticeable . people know that he come from Bremen ; but that be not he native place , though he master live there . he own native place be in Thuringia , the town of Eisenach , close by the Wartburg . Old Anthony do not speak much of this , but he think of it all the more . the old clerk of the Haeuschen Street do not often come together . each one remain in he booth , which be close early in the evening ; and then it look dark enough in the street : only a faint glimmer of light force its way through the little horn-pane in the roof ; and in the booth sit , generally on he bed , the old bachelor , he german hymn-book in he hand , sing a evening psalm in a low voice ; or he go about in the booth till late into the night , and busy himself about all sort of thing . it be certainly not a amusing life . to be a stranger in a strange land be a bitter lot : nobody care for you , unless you happen to get in anybody 's way . often when it be dark night outside , with snow and rain , the place look very gloomy and lonely . no lamp be to be see , with the exception of one solitary light hanging before the picture of the Virgin that be fasten against the wall . the plash of the water against the neighbouring rampart at the castle wharf could be plainly hear . such evening be long and dreary , unless people devise some employment for themselves . there be not always pack or unpack to do , nor can the scale be polish or paper bag be make continually ; and , fail these , people should devise other employment for themselves . and that be just what old Anthony do ; for he use to mend he clothes and put piece on he boot . when he at last seek he couch , he use from habit to keep he nightcap on . he draw it down a little closer ; but soon he would push it up again , to see if the light have be properly extinguish . he would touch it , press the wick together , and then lie down on the other side , and draw he nightcap down again ; but then a doubt would come upon he , if every coal in the little fire-pan below have be properly deaden and put out -- a tiny spark might have be leave burning , and might set fire to something and cause damage . and therefore he rise from he bed , and creep down the ladder , for it could scarcely be call a stair . and when he come to the fire-pan not a spark be to be discover , and he might just go back again . but often , when he have go half of the way back , it would occur to he that the shutter might not be securely fasten ; yes , then he thin leg must carry he downstairs once more . he be cold , and he tooth chatter in he mouth when he creep back again to bed ; for the cold seem to become doubly severe when it know it can not stay much longer . he draw up the coverlet closer around he , and pull down the nightcap lower over he brow , and turn he thought away from trade and from the labor of the day . but that do not procure he agreeable entertainment ; for now old thought come and put up they curtain , and these curtain have sometimes pin in they , with which one prick oneself , and one cry out `` oh ! '' and they prick into one 's flesh and burn so , that the tear sometimes come into one 's eye ; and that often happen to old Anthony -- hot tear . the largest pearl stream forth , and fall on the coverlet or on the floor , and then they sound as if one of he heart-strings have break . sometimes again they seem to rise up in flame , illuminate a picture of life that never fade out of he heart . if he then dry he eye with he nightcap , the tear and the picture be indeed crushed , but the source of the tear remain , and well up afresh from he heart . the picture do not come up in the order in which the scene have occur in reality , for very often the most painful would come together ; then again the most joyful would come , but these have the deepest shadow of all . the beech wood of Denmark be acknowledge to be fine , but the wood of Thuringia arise far more beautiful in the eye of Anthony . more mighty and more venerable seem to he the old oak around the proud knightly castle , where the creep plant hang down over the stony block of the rock ; sweeter there bloom the flower of the apple tree than in the danish land . this he remember very vividly . a glittering tear roll down over he cheek ; and in this tear he could plainly see two child play -- a boy and a girl . the boy have red cheek , and yellow curling hair , and honest blue eye . he be the son of the merchant Anthony -- it be himself . the little girl have brown eye and black hair , and have a bright clever look . she be the burgomaster 's daughter Molly . the two be play with a apple . they shake the apple , and hear the pip rattle in it . then they cut the apple in two , and each of they take a half ; they divide even the pip , and eat they all but one , which the little girl propose that they should lay in the earth . `` then you shall see , '' she say , `` what will come out . it will be something you do not at all expect . a whole apple tree will come out , but not directly . '' and she put the pip in a flower-pot , and both be very busy and eager about it . the boy make a hole in the earth with he finger , and the little girl drop the pip in it , and they both cover it with earth . `` now , you must not take it out to-morrow to see if it have strike root , '' say Molly . `` that will not do at all . I do it with my flower ; but only twice . I want to see if they be grow -- and I do not know any better then -- and the plant wither . '' Anthony take away the flower-pot , and every morning , the whole winter through , he look at it ; but nothing be to be see but the black earth . at length , however , the spring come , and the sun shone warm again ; and two little green leaf come up out of the pot . `` those be for I and Molly , '' say the boy . `` that be beautiful -- that be marvellously beautiful ! '' soon a third leaf make its appearance . Whom do that represent ? Yes , and there come another , and yet another . Day by day and week by week they grow larger , and the plant begin to take the form of a real tree . and all this be now mirror in a single tear , which be wipe away and disappear ; but it might come again from its source in the heart of old Anthony . in the neighborhood of Eisenach a row of stony mountain rise up . one of these mountain be round in outline , and lift itself above the rest , naked and without tree , bush , or grass . it be call the Venus Mount . in this mountain dwell Lady Venus , one of the deity of the heathen time . she be also call Lady Holle ; and every child in and around Eisenach have hear about she . she it be who lure Tannhauser , the noble knight and minstrel , from the circle of the singer of the Wartburg into she mountain . -lrb-B- Illustration : IMPERTINENT MOLLY . aaaaa -rrb-B- aaa little Molly and Anthony often stand by this mountain ; and once Molly say : `` you may knock and say , ` Lady Holle , open the door -- Tannhauser be here ! '' but Anthony do not dare . Molly , however , do it , though she only say the word `` Lady Holle , Lady Holle ! '' aloud and distinctly ; the rest she mutter so indistinctly that Anthony feel convinced she have not really say anything ; and yet she look as bold and saucy as possible -- as saucy as when she sometimes come round he with other little girl in the garden , and all want to kiss he because he do not like to be kiss and try to keep they off ; and she be the only one who dare to kiss he in spite of he resistance . '' _ I _ may kiss he ! '' she would say proudly . that be she vanity ; and Anthony submit , and think no more about it . how charming and how tease Molly be ! it be say that Lady Holle in the mountain be beautiful also , but that she beauty be like that of a tempting fiend . the greatest beauty and grace be possess by Saint Elizabeth , the patron of the country , the pious Princess of Thuringia , whose good action have be immortalize in many place in legend and story . in the chapel she picture be hang , surround by silver lamp ; but it be not in the least like Molly . the apple tree which the two child have plant grow year by year , and become taller and taller -- so tall , that it have to be transplant into the garden , into the fresh air , where the dew fall and the sun shone warm . and the tree develop itself strongly , so that it could resist the winter . and it seem as if , after the rigor of the cold season be past , it put forth blossom in spring for very joy . in the autumn it bring two apple -- one for Molly and one for Anthony . it could not well have produce less . the tree have grow apace , and Molly grow like the tree . she be as fresh as a apple-blossom ; but Anthony be not long to behold this flower . all thing change ! Molly 's father leave he old home , and Molly go with he , far away . Yes , in we time steam have make the journey they take a matter of a few hour , but then more than a day and a night be necessary to go so far eastward from Eisenach to the furthest border of Thuringia , to the city which be still call Weimar . and Molly weep , and Anthony weep ; but all they tear melt into one , and this tear have the rosy , charming hue of joy . for Molly tell he she love he -- love he more than all the splendor of Weimar . one , two , three year go by , and during this period two letter be receive . one come by a carrier , and a traveller bring the other . the way be long and difficult , and pass through many winding by town and village . often have Molly and Anthony hear of Tristram and Iseult , and often have the boy apply the story to himself and Molly , though the name Tristram be say to mean `` bear in tribulation , '' and that do not apply to Anthony , nor would he ever be able to think , like Tristram , `` she have forget I . '' but , indeed , Iseult do not forget she faithful knight ; and when both be lay to rest in the earth , one on each side of the church , the linden tree grow from they grave over the church roof , and there encounter each other in bloom . Anthony think that be beautiful , but mournful ; but it could not become mournful between he and Molly : and he whistle a song of the old minne-singer , Walter of the Vogelverde : `` under the linden upon the heath . '' and especially that passage appear charming to he : `` from the forest , down in the vale , Sang she sweet song the nightingale . '' this song be often in he mouth , and he sing and whistle it in the moonlight night , when he ride along the deep hollow way on horseback to get to weimar and visit Molly . he wish to come unexpectedly , and he come unexpectedly . he be make welcome with full goblet of wine , with jovial company , fine company , and a pretty room and a good bed be provide for he ; and yet he reception be not what he have dream and fancy it would be . he could not understand himself -- he could not understand the other : but _ we _ can understand it . one may be admit into a house and associate with a family without become one of they . one may converse together as one would converse in a post-carriage , and know one another as people know each other on a journey , each incommode the other and wish that either oneself or the good neighbor be away . Yes , this be the kind of thing Anthony feel . `` I be a honest girl , '' say Molly ; `` and I myself will tell you what it be . much have change since we be child together -- change inwardly and outwardly . habit and will have no power over we heart . Anthony , I should not like to have a enemy in you , now that I shall soon be far away from here . Believe I , I entertain the best wish for you ; but to feel for you what I know now one may feel for a man , have never be the case with I . you must reconcile yourself to this . Farewell , Anthony ! '' and Anthony bid she farewell . no tear come into he eye , but he feel that he be no longer Molly 's friend . hot iron and cold iron alike take the skin from we lip , and we have the same feeling when we kiss it : and he kiss himself into hatred as into love . within twenty-four hour Anthony be back in Eisenach , though certainly the horse on which he ride be ruin . `` what matter ! '' he say : `` I be ruin too ; and I will destroy everything that can remind I of she , or of Lady Holle , or Venus the heathen woman ! I will break down the apple tree and tear it up by the root , so that it shall never bear flower or fruit more ! '' but the apple tree be not break down , though he himself be break down , and bind on a couch by fever . what be it that raise he up again ? a medicine be present to he which have strength to do this -- the bitterest of medicine , that shake up body and spirit together . Anthony 's father cease to be the richest of merchant . heavy day -- day of trial -- be at the door ; misfortune come roll into the house like great wave of the sea . the father become a poor man . sorrow and suffering take away he strength . then Anthony have to think of something else besides nurse he love-sorrows and he anger against Molly . he have to take he father 's place -- to give order , to help , to act energetically , and at last to go out into the world and earn he bread . Anthony go to Bremen . there he learn what poverty and hard living mean ; and these sometimes make the heart hard , and sometimes soften it , even too much . how different the world be , and how different the people be from what he have suppose they to be in he childhood ! what be the minne-singer 's song to he now ? -- a echo , a vanish sound ! yes , that be what he think sometimes ; but again the song would sound in he soul , and he heart become gentle . `` God 's will be best ! '' he would say then . `` it be well that I be not permit to keep Molly 's heart -- that she do not remain true to I . what would it have lead to now , when fortune have turn away from I ? she quit I before she know of this loss of prosperity , or have any notion of what await I . that be a mercy of Providence towards I . everything have happen for the best . it be not she fault -- and I have be so bitter , and have show so much rancor towards she ! '' and year go by . Anthony 's father be dead , and stranger live in the old house . but Anthony be destine to see it again . he rich employer send he on commercial journey , and he duty lead he into he native town of Eisenach . the old Wartburg stand unchanged on the mountain , with `` the monk and the nun '' hew out in stone . the great oak give to the scene the outline it have possess in he childish day . the Venus Mount glimmer gray and naked over the valley . he would have be glad to cry , `` Lady Holle , Lady Holle , unlock the door , and I shall enter and remain in my native earth ! '' that be a sinful thought , and he bless himself to drive it away . then a little bird out of the thicket sing clearly , and the old minne-song come into he mind : `` from the forest , down in the vale , Sang she sweet song the nightingale . '' and here in the town of he childhood , which he thus see again through tear , much come back into he remembrance . the paternal house stand as in the old time ; but the garden be alter , and a field-path lead over a portion of the old ground , and the apple tree that he have not break down stand there , but outside the garden , on the farther side of the path . but the sun throw its ray on the apple tree as in the old day , the dew descend gently upon it as then , and it bear such a burden of fruit that the branch be bent down towards the earth . `` that flourish ! '' he say . `` the tree can grow ! '' nevertheless , one of the branch of the tree be break . mischievous hand have tear it down towards the ground ; for now the tree stand by the public way . `` they break its blossom off without a feeling of thankfulness -- they steal its fruit and break the branch . one might say of the tree as have be say of some man -- ` it be not sing at he cradle that it should come thus . ' how brightly its history begin , and what have it come to ? forsake and forget -- a garden tree by the hedge , in the field , and on the public way ! there it stand unprotected , plundered , and broken ! it have certainly not die , but in the course of year the number of blossom will diminish ; at last the fruit will cease altogether ; and at last -- at last all will be over ! '' such be Anthony 's thought under the tree ; such be he thought during many a night in the lonely chamber of the wooden house in the distant land -- in the Haeuschen Street in Copenhagen , whither he rich employer , the Bremen merchant , have send he , first make it a condition that he should not marry . `` marry ! Ha , ha ! '' he laugh bitterly to himself . Winter have set in early ; it be freezing hard . without , a snow-storm be rage , so that every one who could do so remain at home ; thus , too , it happen that those who live opposite to Anthony do not notice that for two day he house have not be unlock , and that he do not show himself ; for who would go out unnecessarily in such weather ? they be gray , gloomy day ; and in the house , whose window be not of glass , twilight only alternate with dark night . Old Anthony have not leave he bed during the two day , for he have not the strength to rise ; he have for a long time feel in he limb the hardness of the weather . forsake by all , lay the old bachelor , unable to help himself . he could scarcely reach the water-jug that he have place by he bedside , and the last drop it contain have be consume . it be not fever , nor sickness , but old age that have strike he down . up yonder , where he couch be place , he be overshadow as it be by continual night . a little spider , which , however , he could not see , busily and cheerfully span its web around he , as if it be weave a little crape banner that should wave when the old man close he eye . the time be very slow , and long , and dreary . tear he have none to shed , nor do he feel pain . the thought of Molly never come into he mind . he feel as if the world and its noise concern he no longer -- as if he be lie outside the world , and no one be think of he . for a moment he feel a sensation of hunger -- of thirst . yes , he feel they both . but nobody come to tend he -- nobody . he think of those who have once suffer want ; of Saint Elizabeth , as she have once wander on earth ; of she , the saint of he home and of he childhood , the noble Duchess of Thuringia , the benevolent lady who have be accustom to visit the lowliest cottage , bring to the inmate refreshment and comfort . she pious deed shine bright upon he soul . he think of she as she have come to distribute word of comfort , binding up the wound of the afflict , give meat to the hungry ; though she stern husband have chide she for it . he think of the legend tell of she , how she have be carry the full basket contain food and wine , when she husband , who watch she footstep , come forth and ask angrily what she be carry , whereupon she answer , in fear and tremble , that the basket contain rose which she have pluck in the garden ; how he have tear away the white cloth from the basket , and a miracle have be perform for the pious lady ; for bread , and wine , and everything in the basket have be transform into rose ! thus the saint 's memory dwelt in Anthony 's quiet mind ; thus she stand bodily before he downcast face , before he warehouse in the simple booth in the danish land . he uncover he head , and look into she gentle eye , and everything around he be beautiful and roseate . Yes , the rose seem to unfold themselves in fragrance . there come to he a sweet , peculiar odour of apple , and he see a bloom apple tree , which spread its branch above he -- it be the tree which Molly and he have plant together . and the tree strew down its fragrant leave upon he , cool he burning brow . the leaf fall upon he parched lip , and be like strengthen bread and wine ; and they fall upon he breast , and he feel reassure and calm , and incline to sleep peacefully . `` now I shall sleep , '' he whisper to himself . `` sleep be refresh . to-morrow I shall be upon my foot again , and strong and well -- glorious , wonderful ! that apple tree , plant in true affection , now stand before I in heavenly radiance -- '' -lrb-B- illustration : the OPPOSITE NEIGHBOUR look after OLD ANTHONY . aaaaa -rrb-B- aaa and he sleep . the day afterwards -- it be the third day that he shop have remain closed -- the snow-storm have cease , and a neighbor from the opposite house come over towards the booth where dwelt old Anthony , who have not yet show himself . Anthony lay stretch upon he bed -- dead -- with he old cap clutch tightly in he two hand ! they do not put that cap on he head in he coffin , for he have a new white one . where be now the tear that he have weep ? what have become of the pearl ? they remain in the nightcap -- and the true one do not come out in the wash -- they be preserve in the nightcap , and in time forget ; but the old thought and the old dream still remain in the `` bachelor 's nightcap . '' do not wish for such a cap for yourself . it would make you forehead very hot , would make you pulse beat feverishly , and conjure up dream which appear like reality . the first who wear that identical cap afterwards feel all that at once , though it be half a century afterwards ; and that man be the burgomaster himself , who , with he wife and eleven child , be well and firmly establish , and have amass a very tolerable amount of wealth . he be immediately seize with dream of unfortunate love , of bankruptcy , and of heavy time . `` Hallo ! how the nightcap burn ! '' he cry out , and tear it from he head . and a pearl roll out , and another , and another , and they sound and glitter . `` this must be gout , '' say the burgomaster . `` something dazzle my eye ! '' they be tear , shed half a century before by old Anthony from Eisenach . every one who afterwards put that nightcap upon he head have vision and dream which excite he not a little . he own history be change into that of Anthony , and become a story ; in fact , many story . but some one else may tell _ they _ . we have tell the first . and we last word be -- do not wish for `` the Old Bachelor 's Nightcap . ''