the PRINCESS BETROTHED to the king of GARBA La Fontain what various way in which a thing be tell some truth abuse , while other fiction hold ; in story we invention may admit ; but diff ` rent ` ti with what historick writ ; Posterity demand that truth should then Inspire relation , and direct the pen . ALACIEL be story 's of another kind , and I have a little altered it , you 'll find ; fault some may see , and other disbelieve ; ` tis all the same : -- ` twill never make I grieve ; Alaciel 's mem ` ry , it be very clear , can scarcely by it lose ; there be naught to fear . two fact important I have keep in view , in which the author fully I pursue ; the one -- no less than eight the belle possess , before a husband 's sight she eye have bless ; the other be , the prince she be to wed Ne'er seem to heed this trespass on he bed , but thought , perhaps , the beauty she have get would prove to any one a happy lot . HOWE ` er this fair , amid adventure dire , more suffering share than malice could desire ; Though eight time , doubtless , she exchange she knight no proof , that she she spouse be lead to slight ; 'Twas gratitude , compassion , or good will ; the dread of worse ; -- she would truly have she fill ; ExcusesS just , to vindicate she fame , who , spite of trouble , fan the monarch 's flame : of eight the relict , still a maid receive ; -- apparently , the prince she pure believe ; for , though at time we may be dupe in this , yet , after such a number -- strange to miss ! and I submit to those who have pass the scene , if they , to my opinion , do not lean . the king of Alexandria , Zarus name , a daughter have , who all he fondness claim , a star divine Alaciel shone around , the charm of beauty 's queen be in she find ; with soul celestial , gracious , good , and kind , and all-accomplished , all-complying mind . the rumor of she worth spread far and wide , the king of Garba ask she for he bride , and Mamolin -lrb-B- the sov ` reign of the spot , -rrb-B- to other prince have a pref ` rence get . the fair , howe'er , already feel the smart of Cupid 's arrow , and have lose she heart ; but 'twa not know : princess love conceal , and scarcely dare its whisper fond reveal ; within they bosom poignant pain remain , though flesh and blood , like lass of the plain . the noble Hispal , one of zarus ' court , a handsome youth , as history report , Alaciel please ; a mutual flame arise , though this they dare not venture to disclose or , if express , 'twa solely by the eye : -- soul-speaking language , nothing can disguise ! AFFIANCED thus , the princess , with a sigh , prepare to part , and fully to comply . the father trust she to Hispal 's care , without the least suspicion of the snare ; they soon embark and plough the briny main ; with anxious hope in time the port to gain . when they , from Egypt 's coast have sail a week ; to gain the wind they see a pirate seek , which have do , he t ` ward they bear in haste , to take the ship in which we fair be place . the battle quickly rage ; alike they err ; the pirate slaughter love , and blood prefer , and , long accustom to the stormy tide , be most expert , and on they skill rely . in number , too , superior they be find ; but Hisipal 's valor greatly shine around , and keep the combat undecided long ; at length Grifonio , wond ` rous large and strong ; with twenty sturdy , pirate get on board , and many soon lay gasp by the sword . where'er he tread , grim death and horror reign ; at length , the round the noble Hispal gain . he nervous arm lay many wretch low rage mark he eye , whene'er he deal a blow : BUT , while the youth be thus engage in fight , Grifonio run to gain a sweeter sight ; the princess be on board full well he know ; no time he lose , but to she chamber fly ; and , since he pleasure seem to be she doom ; he bear she like a sparrow from the room : but not content with such a charming fair , he take she diamond , ornament for hair , and those dear pledge lady oft receive , when they a lover 's ardent flame believe . indeed , I have hear it hint as a truth , -lrb-B- and very probable for such a youth , -rrb-B- that Hispal , while on board , he flame reveal ; and what chagrin she feel be then conceal , the passage think a improper time , to shew a marked displeasure at he crime . the pirate-chief who carry off he prey , have short-lived joy , for , wish to convey he charming captive from the ship with speed ; one vessel chance a little to recede , although securely fasten by the crew , with grappling hook , as usually they do , when quite intent to pass , young Hispal make a blow , that dead at once the ruffian lay ; he head and shoulder , sever from the trunk ; Fell in the sea , and to the bottom sink , Abjuring Mahomet , and all the tribe of idle prophet , CatholicsS proscribe ; erect the rest upon the leg remain ; the very posture as before retain ; this curious sight no doubt a laugh have raise , -- but in the moment , she , so lately praise , with dread Grifonio , fall beyond they view ; to save she , straight the gallant Hispal fly . the ship , for want of pilot at the helm , at random drift over Neptune 's realm . grim death the pirate force to quit he slave ; buoy up by clothes , she float on the wave , 'Till Hispal succor lend , who see 'twa vain to try with she the vessel to regain . he could , with greater ease , the fair convey to certain rock , and thither bent he way ; those rock to sailor oft destruction prove , but now the couple save , who thither move : ` tis even say the jewel be not lose , but sweet Alaciel , howsoever tost , preserve the casket , which with string be tie ; and seize these , the treasure draw aside . OUR swimmer on he back the princess bear ; the rock attain ; but hardship be not o ` er ; Misfortunes dire the noble pair pursue and famine , worst of ill , around be view . no ship be near ; the light soon pass away ; the night the same ; again appear the day ; no vessel hove in sight ; no food to eat ; we couple 's wretchedness seem now complete ; Hope leave they both , and , mutual passion move , they situation more tormenting prove . long time in silence they each other eyed at length , to speak the lovely charmer try Said she , ` tis useless , Hispal , to bewail : tear , with the cruel Parcae , naught avail ; each other to console be now we aim ; Grim death he course will follow still the same . to mitigate the smart let 's try anew ; in such a place as this few joy accrue . CONSOLE each other , say you ? Hispal cry ; what can console when force one 's love to hide ? besides , fair princess , ev ` ry way ` ti clear , Improper ` twere for you to love while here ; I equally could death or famine brave ; but you I tremble for , and wish to save . these word so pained the fair , that gush tear Bedewed Alaciel 's cheek , she look speak fear ; the ardent flame which she would so long conceal ; Burst forth in sigh , and all its warmth reveal ; while such emotion Hispal 's eye express , that more than word he anxious wish confess . these tender scene be follow by a kiss , the prelude sweet of soft enchant bliss ; but whether take , or by choice bestow , Alike 'twa clear , they heaving bosom glow . those vow now o ` er , say Hispal with a sigh , in this adventure , if we be doom to die , Indiff ` rent surely ` tis , the prey to be of bird of air , or fish of the sea ; my reason tell I ev ` ry grave 's the same , return we must , at last , from whence we come , here ling ` ring death alone we can expect ; to brave the wave ` tis better to elect ; I yet have strength , and ` tis not far to land ; the wind set fair : let 's try to gain the strand ; from rock to rock we 'll go : I many view , where I can rest ; to THIS we 'll bid adieu . to move , Alaciel readily agree ; Again we couple venture to proceed ; the casket safe in tow ; the weather hot ; from rock to rock with care we swimmer get ; the princess , anxious on he back to keep : -- new mode of traverse the wat ` ry deep . with Heav 'n' s assistance , and the rock for rest , the youth , by hunger and fatigue oppress , uneasiness of mind , weigh down with care , not for himself , but safety of the fair , a fast of two long tedious day now o ` er , the casket and the belle he bring on shore : I think you cry -- how wond ` rously exact , to bring the casket into ev ` ry act ! be that a circumstance of weight I pray ? it truly seem so , and without delay , you 'll see if I be wrong ; no airy flight , or jeer , or raillery , have I in sight . have I embark we couple in a ship without or cash or jewel for the trip , Distress have follow , you must be aware ; ` TisS past we pow ` r to live on love or air ; in vain AFFECTION ev ` ry effort try inexorable hunger ALL defy . the casket , with the diamond prove a source , to which 'twa requisite to have recourse ; some Hispal sell , and other put in pawn , and purchase , near the coast , a house and lawn ; with wood , extensive park , and pleasure ground ; and many bow ` r and shady walk around , where charming hour they pass , and this 'twa plain , without the casket they could n ` er obtain . beneath the wood there be a secret grot , where lover , when they please , concealment get , a quiet , gloomy , solitary place , design by nature for the billing race . one day , as through the grove a walk they seek , the god of love we couple thither bring ; he wish , Hispal , as they go along , explained im part by word direct and strong ; the rest he sigh express , -lrb-B- they speak the soul ; -rrb-B- -- the princess , tremble , listen to the whole . say he , we now be in a place retire , unknown to man , -lrb-B- such spot how oft desire ! -rrb-B- Let 's take advantage of the present hour : no joy , but those of LOVE , be in we pow ` r ; all other see withdraw ! and no one know we even live ; perhaps both friend and foe believe we in the belly of a whale ; allow I , lovely princess , to prevail ; Bestow you kindness , or , without delay , those charm to Mamolin let I convey . yet , why go thither ? -- happy you could make the man , whose constancy no peril shake , what would you more ? -- he passion 's ardent grown ; and surely you have enough resistance show . such tender elocution Hispal use , that e ` en to marble , ` Twould have warmth infuse ; while fair Alaciel , on the bark of tree , with bodkin write , apparently at ease . but Cupid draw she thought to higher thing , than merely grave what from fancy spring . she lover and the place , at once assure , that such a secret would be well secure ; a tempting bait , which make she , with regret , resist the witching charm that she beset . UNLUCKILY , 'twa then the month of May , when youthful heart be often lead astray , and soft desire can scarcely be conceal , but press through the pore to be reveal . how many do we see , by slow degree , and , step by step , accord they ALL to please , who , at the onset , never dream to grant the smallest favor to they fond gallant . the god of love so archly act he part , and , in unguarded moment , melt the heart , that many belle have tumble in the snare , who , how it happen , scarcely could declare . when they have reach the please secret spot ; Young Hispal wish to go within the grot ; Though nearly overcome , she this decline ; but then he service arise to mind ; she life from Ocean 's wave , she honor too , to he she owe ; what could he have in view ? a something , which already have be show , be save through Hispal 's nervous arm alone : Said he , far better bless a real friend , than have each treasure rifle in the end , by some successful ruffian ; think it o ` er ; you little dream for whom you guard the store . the princess feel the truth of this remark , and half surrender to the loving spark ; a show ` r oblige the pair , without delay , to seek a shed : -- the place I need not say ; the rest within the grotto lie conceal : -- the scene of Cupid ne'er should be reveal . Alaciel blame , or not -- I have many know , with less excuse , who have like favor show . alone the cavern witness not they bliss ; in love , a point once gain , naught feel amiss , if tree could speak that grow within the dell , what joy they view -- what story they might tell ! the park , the lawn , the pleasure grounds , and bow ` r , the belt of rose , and the bed of flow ` r , all , all could whisper something of the kind ; at length , both long they friend again to find , quite cloy with love , they sigh to be at court ; thus speak the fair she wish to support . love youth , to me you must be ever dear ; to doubt it would ungen ` rous now appear ; but tell I , pray , what be love without desire , Devoid of fear , and nothing to acquire ? flame unconfined be soon exhaust find , but , thwart in its course ` twill long abound ; I fear this spot , which we so highly prize , Will soon appear a desert in we eye , and prove at last we grave ; relieve my woe ; at once to Alexandria , Hispal go ; Alive pronounce , you presently will see , what worthy people think of you and I ; Conceal we residence , declare you come , my journey to prepare , -lrb-B- you certain aim , -rrb-B- and see that I have a num ` rous escort send , to guard I from a similar event . by it , believe I , you shall nothing lose ; and this be what I willingly would choose ; for , be I single , or in Hymen 's band , I would have you follow I by sea and land , and be assure , should favor I withdraw , that I have observe in you some glaring flaw . be she intention fully as express , or contrary to what she lip confess , no matter which she view , 'twa very plain , if she would Hispal 's service retain , ` twere right the youth with promise to feed , while he assistance she so much must need : as soon as he be ready to depart she press he fondly to she glowing heart , and charge he with a letter to the king ; this Hispal hasten to the prince to bring ; each sail he crowd : -- ply with ev ` ry oar ; a wind quite fair soon bring he to shore ; to court he go , where all with eager eye , demand if he live , amid surprise , and where he leave the princess ; what she state ? these question answer , Hispal , quite elate , Procured the escort , which , without delay , though leave he behind , be send away : no dark mistrust retain the noble youth ; but Zarus wish it : such appear the truth . by one of early year the troop be lead , a handsome lad , and elegantly breed . he land with he party near the park . and these in two divide ere 'twas dark . one half he leave a guard upon the shore , and with the other hasten to the door , where dwell the belle , who daily fairer grow : we chief be smite instantly at view ; and , fear opportunity again , like this , perhaps , he never might obtain , avow at once he passion to the fair ; at which she frown , and tell he , with a air ; to recollect he duty , and she rank : -- with equal only , he should be so frank . on these occasion , prudent ` tis to show you disappointment by a face of woe ; Seem ev ` ry way the picture of despair : -- this countenance we knight appear to wear ; to starve himself he vow be he design ; to use the poniard he should ne'er incline , for then no time for penitence would rest . -- the princess of he folly make a jest . he fast one whole day ; she-tried in vain to make he from the enterprise refrain . AT length , the second day she ` gan to feel , and strong emotion scarcely could conceal . what ! let a person die she charm could save ! 'twa cruel , thus to treat a youth so brave . through pity , she at last , to please the chief , consent to bestow on he relief ; for , favor , when confer with sullen air , but little gratify she be aware . WHen satisfy the smart gallant appear , and anxiously to put off adhered , pretend that the wind and tide would fail ; the galley sometimes be unfit to sail , RepairsS require ; then further hear the news , that certain pirate have unpleasant view ; to fall upon the escort they have contrived : at length , a pirate suddenly arrive , surprize the party leave upon the shore , destroy the whole ; then seek the house for more , and scale the wall while darkness spread around . the pirate be Grifonio 's second find , who , in a trice , the noble mansion take , and joy give place to grief in ev ` ry look . THe Alexandrian swear and curse he lot ; the pirate soon the lady 's story get , and , take she aside , he share require such impudence Alaciel 's patience tire , who , ev ` ry thing refuse with haughty air ; of this , howe'er , the robber be aware ; in Venus ' court no novice be he think ; to gain the princess anxiously he seek ; Said he , you would better take I as a friend ; I be more than pirate , and you 'll comprehend , as you have oblige one die swain to fast , you fast in turn , or you 'll give way at last ; ` Tis justice this demand : we son of sea Know how to deal with those of each degree ; remember you will nothing have to eat , till you surrender fully be complete . no haggle , princess pray , my word receive ; what could be do , she terror to relieve ? above all law be might : -- ` twill take its course ; Entire submission be the last resource . of ` T what we would not , we be oblige to do , when fate we step with rigor will pursue . no folly greater than to heighten pain , when we be sensible relief be vain . what she , through pity , to another give , Might well be grant when herself ` twould save . AT length she yield to this suitor rude : -- no grief so great , but what may be subdue . ` Twould in the pirate doubtless have be wise , the belle to move , and thus prevent surprise ; but who , from folly in amours be free ? the god of love and wisdom ne'er agree . while we gay pirate think himself at ease , the wind quite fair to sail when he might please , Dame Fortune , sleepy only while we wake , and slily watch when repose we take , contrive a trick the cunning knave to play , and this be put in force ere break of day . a LORD , the owner of a neighb ` ring seat , Unmarried ; -- fond of what be nice and neat , without attachment , and devoid of care , Save something new to meet among the FAIR ; Grew tire of those he long around have view , now constantly , in thought , we belle pursue . he have money , friend , and credit all he day , and could two thousand man at pleasure raise : one charming morn , together these he bring ; Said he , brave fellow , can it well be think , that we allow a pirate , -lrb-B- dire disgrace ! -rrb-B- to plunder as he like before we face , and make a slave of one whose form 's divine ? Let 's to the castle , such be my design , and from the ruffian liberate the fair ; this evening ev ` ry one will here repair , well armed , and then in silence we 'll proceed , -lrb-B- by night ` ti nothing will impede , -rrb-B- and ere Aurora peep , perform the task ; the only booty that I mean to ask be this fair dame ; but not a slave to make , I anxiously desire to let she take Whate'er be she 's : -- restore she honor too ; all other thing I freely leave to you ; man , horse , baggage , in a word , the whole of what the knavish rascal now control . another thing , howe'er : -- I wish to hang the pirate instantly , before he gang . this speech so well succeed to inspire , that scarcely could the man retain they ire . the evening come , the party soon arrive ; they eat not much , but drink they rage revive . by such expensive treat we have army know , in Germany and Flanders overthrow ; and we commander be of this aware 'twa prudent , surely , no expense to spare . THEY carry ladder for the escalade , and each be furnish with a temper blade ; no other thing embarrass they would get ; no drum ; but all be silent as the grot . THEY reach the house when nearly break of day , the time old Morpheus ' slumber often weigh ; the gang , with few exception , -lrb-B- then asleep -rrb-B- , be send , they vigil with grim death to keep . the chief hang up : -- the princess soon appear ; she spirit presently we champion cheer ; the pirate scarcely have she bosom move : -- no tear at least a marked affection prove ; but , by she prayer she pardon seek to gain , for some who be not in the conflict slay ; console the die , and lament those , who , by the sword , have close they book of woe : then leave the place without the least regret , where such adventure and alarm she have meet . ` Tis say , indeed , she presently forget the two gallant who last become she lot ; and I can easily the fact believe : remove from sight , but few for lover grieve . SHE , by she neighbor , be receive , we be tell , ` Mid costly furniture and burnish gold ; we may suppose what splendor shone around , when all-attracting he would fain be find ; the best of wine ; each dish consider rare : -- the god themselves receive not better fare : till then , Alaciel ne'er have taste wine ; she faith forbid a liquor so divine ; and , unacquainted with the potent juice , she much indulge at table in its use . if lately LOVE disquiet she brain , new poison now pervaded ev ` ry vein ; both fraught with danger to the beauteous FAIR , Whose charm should guard be with ev ` ry care . the princess by the maid in bed be place ; then thither go the host with anxious haste , what seek he ? you will ask : -- mere torpid charm : -- I wish the like be clasp within my arm . give I as much , say one the other week , and see if I have a neighbour 's kindness seek . through Morpheus ' sleepy pow ` r , and Bacchus ' wine : we host , at length , complete he design . ALACIEL , when at morn , she ope she eye , be quite o ` ercome with terror and surprise , no tear would flow , and fear restrain she voice ; unable to resist , she would get no choice . a night thus pass , the wily lover say , must surely give a license to you bed . the princess think the same ; but we gallant , soon cloy , for other conquest ` gan to pant . the host one evening from the mansion go ; a friend he leave himself to represent , and with the charming fair supply he place , which , in the dark he think , with easy grace , Might be effect , if he hold he tongue , and properly behave the whole night long . to this the other willingly agree ; -lrb-B- what friend would be refuse , if thus in need ? -rrb-B- and this new-comer have complete success he scarcely could he ecstacy express . the dame exclaim : -- pray how could he pretend ; to treat I so , and leave I to a friend ? the other think the host be much to blame ; but since ` tis o ` er , say he , be now you aim , to punish he contempt of beauteous charm ; with favor load I -- take I to you arm ; Caress with fond embrace ; bestow delight ; and seem to love I , though in mere despite . SHE follow he advice : avenge the wrong ; and naught omit , pleasure to prolong . if he obtain he wish from the fair , the host about it scarcely seem to care . the sixth adventure of we charming belle , some writer one way , some another tell ; Whence many think that favor I have show , and for she , one gallant the less would own . mere scandal this ; from truth I would nor swerve , to please the fair : more credence I deserve ; she husband only eight precursor have ; the fact be such ; -- I none suppress nor add . the host return and find he friend content ; to pardon he Alaciel give consent ; and ` tween they thing would equally divide of royal bosom clemency 's the pride . while thus the princess pass from hand to hand she oft amuse she fancy ` mong a band of charming belle that on she would attend , and one of these she make a humble friend . the fav ` rite in the house a lover have , a smart , engaging , handsome , clever lad , well bear , but much to violence incline a wooer that could scarcely be confine to gentle means , but oft he suit begin , where other end , who follow Cupid 's plan . it one day happen , that this forward spark ; the girl we speak of , meet within the park , and to a summer-house the fav ` rite draw ; the course they take the princess chance to view as wand ` ring near ; but neither swain nor fair , Suspicion have , that any one be there ; and this gallant most confidently think , the girl by force , might to he term be bring ! he wretched temper , obstacle to love , and ev ` ry bliss bestow by heav ` n above , have oft he hope of favor lately mar ; and fear , with those design , have also jar : the girl , howe'er , would likely have be kind , if opportunity have please she mind . the lover , now convince that he be fear ; in dark design upon she persevered . no sooner have she enter , than we man lock instantly the door , but vain he plan ; to open it the princess have a key ; the girl she fault perceive , and try to flee ; he hold she fast ; the charmer loudly call ; the princess come -- or vainly she have squalle . quite disappoint : overcome with ire , he wholly lose respect amid desire , and swear by all the god , that , ere they go , the one or other should to he consent ; they hand he would firmly tie to have he way ; for help -lrb-B- the place so far -rrb-B- ` twere vain to pray ; to take a lot be all that he would allow ; come , draw , he say ; to Fortune you must bow ; no haggle I request -- comply ; be still : resolve I be with one to have my will . what have the princess do ? the girl reply , that you , to make she suffer , thus decide yes , say the spark , if on she fall the lot , then you 'll , at least for present , be forget . no , cried Alaciel , ne'er I 'll have it say , to sacrifice I see a maiden lead ; I 'll suffer rather all that you expect , if you will spare my friend as I direct . 'twa all in vain , the lot be draw at last , and on the princess be the burthen cast ; the other be permit to retire , and each be swear that nothing should transpire : but we gallant would sooner have be hang , than have upon such secret hold he tongue ; ` tis clear , no longer silent he remain , than one to listen to he tale he have gain . THIS change of favorite the princess grieve ; that cupid trifle with she she perceive ; with much regret she see she bloom charm , the Helen of too many Paris ' arm . one day it happen , as we beauteous belle be sleep in a wood beside a dell , by chance there pass , quite near , a wand ` ring knight , like those the lady follow with delight , when they on palfrey ride in day of old , and purity be always think to hold . this knight , who copy those of famed romance , Sir Roger , and the rest , in complisance , no sooner see the princess thus asleep , than instantly he wish a kiss to reap . while thinking , whether from the neck or lip , ` Twere best the tempting balm of bliss to sip , he suddenly begin to recollect the law of chivalry he should respect . although the thought retain , he fervent prayer to Cupid be , that while the nymph be there , she fascinating charm he might enjoy ; Sure love 's soft sens be ne'er design to cloy ! the princess wake , and great surprise express ; oh ! charming fair , say he , be not distressed ; no savage of the wood nor giant 's nigh , a wand ` ring knight alone you now descry , delighted thus to meet a beauteous belle such charm divine , what angel can excel ! THIS compliment be follow by he sigh , and frank confession , both from tongue and eye ; we lover far in little time could go ; at length , he offer on she to bestow , he hand and heart , and ev ` ry thing beside , which custom sanction when we seek a bride . with courtesy he offer be receive , and she relate what she bosom grieve ; Detailed she hist ` ry , but with care conceal the six gallant , as wrong to be reveal . the knight , in what he wish , indulgence get ; and , while the princess much deplore she lot , the youth propose Alaciel he should bring , to Mamolin , or Alexandria 's king . to Mamolin ? reply the princess fair , No , no -- I now indeed would fain repair , -lrb-B- could I my wish have -rrb-B- , to Zarus ' court , my native country : -- thither give support . if cupid grant I life , rejoin the knight , you there shall go , and I 'll assist you flight ; to have redress , upon yourself depend , as well as to requite the best of friend ; but should I perish in the bold design , submit you must , as will the pow ` r divine . I 'll freely say , howe'er , that I regard , my service enough to claim reward . ALACIEL readily to this agreed ; and favor fondly promise to concede ; T ` ensure , indeed , he guard she throughout , they be to be confer upon the route , from time to time as onward they should go , not all at once , but daily some to flow . thing thus arrange , the fair behind the knight get up at once , and with he take to flight . we cavalier he servant seek to find , that , when he cross the wood , he leave behind ; with these a nephew and he tutor ride ; the belle a palfrey take , as more the mode , but , by she walk attentively the spark , a tale he would now relate ; at time remark the passing scene ; then press he ardent flame ; and thus amuse we royal , beauteous dame . the treaty be most faithfully observed ; no calculation wrong ; from naught they swerve . at length they reach the sea ; on ship-board get ; a quick and please passage be they lot ; Delightfully serene , which joy increase ; to land they come -lrb-B- from peril think release ; -rrb-B- at Joppa they debark ; two day remain : and when refresh , the proper road they gain ; they escort be the lover 's train alone ; on Asia 's shore to plunder band be prone ; by these be meet we spark and lovely fair ; New danger they , alas ! be force to share . to cede , at first , they number force the train ; but rally by we knight they be again ; a desp ` rate push he make ; repulse they force ; and by he valor stopt , at length , they course ; in which attack a mortal wound he get , but be not leave for dead upon the spot . before he death he full instruction give , to grant the belle whatever she might crave ; he order too , he nephew should convey , Alaciel to she home without delay , bequeath he whatever he possess , and -- what the princess owe among the rest . AT length , from dread alarm and tear release , the pair fulfil the will of we decease ; discharge each favor be , of which the last be cancel just as they the frontier pass . the nephew here he precious charge resign , for fear the king should be displeased to find , he daughter guard by a youthful swain : -- the tutor only with she could remain . no word of mine , no language can express the monarch 's joy he child to re-possess ; and , since the difficulty I perceive , I 'll imitate old Sol 's retreat at eve , who fall with such rapidity of view , he seem to plunge , dame ThetisS to pursue . the tutor like he own detail to hear , and entertaining make he tale appear : the num ` rous peril that the fair have flee , who laugh aside , no doubt , at what he say . I should observe , the age tutor cry , the princess , while for liberty she sigh , and quite alone remain -lrb-B- by Hispal leave , -rrb-B- that she might be of idleness bereft , resolve most fervently a god to serve , from whom she scarcely since would ever swerve , a god much worship ` mong the people there , with num ` rous temple which he honor share , denominate cabinet and bow ` r , in which , from high respect to heav ` nly pow ` r , they represent the image of a bird , a please sight , though -lrb-B- what appear absurd -rrb-B- ` Tis bare of plumage , save about the wing ; to this each youthful bosom incense bring , while other god , as I have be often tell , they scarcely notice , till they be grow old . DID you but know the virtuous step she tread , while thus devote to the little god , you would thank a hundred time the pow ` r above , that give you such a child to bless you love . but many other custom there abound : -- the fair with perfect liberty be find : can go and come , whene'er the humor fit ; no eunuch -lrb-B- shadow like -rrb-B- that never quit ; but watch ev ` ry movement : -- always fear ; no man , but who have upon the chin a beard : you daughter from the first , they manners take : so easy be she ev ` ry act and look , and truly to she honor I may say , she be all-accommodating ev ` ry way . the king delighted seem at what he hear ; but since she journey could not be defer , the princess , with a num ` rous escort , try again o ` er sea t ` ward Garba 's shore to glide , and , there arrive , be cordially receive by Mamolin , who love , she soon believe , to fond excess ; and , all she suite to aid , a handsome gift to ev ` ry one be make . the king with noble feast the court regale , at which Alaciel pleasantly detail just what she like , or true or false , 'twa clear ; the prince and courtier be dispose to hear . AT night the queen retire to soft repose , from whence next morn with honor she arise ; the king be find much pleasure to express ; Alaciel ask no more , you well may guess . by this we learn , that husband who aver they wond ` rous penetration often err ; and while they fancy thing so very plain , they have be precede by a fav ` rite swain . the safest rule 's to be upon you guard ; fear ev ` ry guile ; yet hope the full reward . sweet , charming FAIR , you character revere ; the Mamolin 's a bird not common here . with we Love 's fascination be so soon succeed by the licensed honey moon , there be scarcely opportunity to fool , though oft the husband prove a easy tool . your friendship may be very chaste and pure , but strangely Cupid 's lesson will allure . defeat he wiles ; resist he tempting charm E ` en from suspicion suffer not alarm . do not laugh at my advice ; ` twere like the boy , who better might amuse themselves with toy . if any one , howe'er unable seem , to make resistance ` gainst the flame supreme turn ALL to jest ; though right to keep the crown yet lose , ` there wrong , yourself to hang or drown .