197 the Crystal Ball BrothersS Grimm there be once a enchantress , who have three son who love each other as brother , but the old woman do not trust they , and think they want to steal she power from she . so she change the eldest into a eagle , which be force to dwell in the rocky mountain , and be often see sweeping in great circle in the sky . the second , she change into a whale , which live in the deep sea , and all that be see of it be that it sometimes spout up a great jet of water in the air . each of they only bear he human form for only two hour daily . the third son , who be afraid she might change he into a rage wild beast a bear perhaps , or a wolf , go secretly away . he have hear that a King 's daughter who be bewitch , be imprison in the Castle of the Golden Sun , and be wait for deliverance . those , however , who try to free she risk they life ; three-and-twenty youth have already die a miserable death , and now only one other might make the attempt , after which no more must come . and as he heart be without fear , he catch at the idea of seek out the Castle of the Golden Sun . he have already travel about for a long time without be able to find it , when he come by chance into a great forest , and do not know the way out of it . all at once he see in the distance two giant , who make a sign to he with they hand , and when he come to they they say , `` we be quarrel about a cap , and which of we it be to belong to , and as we be equally strong , neither of we can get the better of the other . the small man be cleverer than we be , so we will leave the decision to thee . '' `` how can you dispute about a old cap ? '' say the youth . `` Thou dost not know what property it have ! it be a wishing-cap ; whosoever put it on , can wish himself away wherever he like , and in a instant he will be there . '' `` give I the cap , '' say the youth , `` I will go a short distance off , and when I call you , you must run a race , and the cap shall belong to the one who get first to I . '' he put it on and go away , and thought of the King 's daughter , forget the giant , and walk continually onward . at length he sigh from the very bottom of he heart , and cry , `` ah , if I be but at the Castle of the Golden Sun , '' and hardly have the word pass he lip than he be stand on a high mountain before the gate of the castle . he enter and go through all the room , until in the last he find the King 's daughter . but how shocked he be when he see she . she have a ashen-gray face full of wrinkle , blear eye , and red hair . `` be you the King 's daughter , whose beauty the whole world praise ? '' cry he . `` ah , '' she answer , `` this be not my form ; human eye can only see I in this state of ugliness , but that thou mayst know what I be like , look in the mirror it do not let itself be mislead it will show thee my image as it be in truth . '' she give he the mirror in he hand , and he see therein the likeness of the most beautiful maiden on earth , and see , too , how the tear be roll down she cheek with grief . then say he , `` how canst thou be set free ? I fear no danger . '' she say , `` he who get the crystal ball , and hold it before the enchanter , will destroy he power with it , and I shall resume my true shape . ah , '' she add , `` so many have already go to meet death for this , and thou art so young ; I grieve that thou shouldst encounter such great danger . '' `` nothing can keep I from do it , '' say he , `` but tell I what I must do . '' `` Thou shalt know everything , '' say the King 's daughter ; `` when thou descendest the mountain on which the castle stand , a wild bull will stand below by a spring , and thou must fight with it , and if thou hast the luck to kill it , a fiery bird will spring out of it , which bear in its body a burning egg , and in the egg the crystal ball lie like a yolk . the bird will not , however , let the egg fall until force to do so , and if it fall on the ground , it will flame up and burn everything that be near , and melt even ice itself , and with it the crystal ball , and then all thy trouble will have be in vain . '' the youth go down to the spring , where the bull snort and bellow at he . after a long struggle he plunge he sword in the animal 's body , and it fall down . instantly a fiery bird arise from it , and be about to fly away , but the young man 's brother , the eagle , who be pass between the cloud , swoop down , hunt it away to the sea , and strike it with he beak until , in its extremity , it let the egg fall . the egg do not , however , fall into the sea , but on a fisherman 's hut which stand on the shore and the hut begin at once to smoke and be about to break out in flame . then arise in the sea wave as high as a house , they stream over the hut , and subdue the fire . the other brother , the whale , have come swimming to they , and have drive the water up on high . when the fire be extinguish , the youth seek for the egg and happily find it ; it be not yet melt , but the shell be break by be so suddenly cool with the water , and he could take out the crystal ball unhurt . when the youth go to the enchanter and hold it before he , the latter say , `` my power be destroy , and from this time forth thou art the King of the Castle of the Golden Sun . with this canst thou likewise give back to thy brother they human form . '' then the youth hasten to the King 's daughter , and when he enter the room , she be stand there in the full splendor of she beauty , and joyfully they exchange ring with each other .