the three prince and the PRINCESS NOURONNIHAR . Arabian Writer there be once a sultan of India who have three son . these , with the princess he niece , be the ornament of he court . the eldest of the prince be call Houssain , the second Ali , the youngest Ahmed , and the princess he niece , Nouronnihar . the Princess Nouronnihar be the daughter of the younger brother of the sultan , to whom the sultan in he lifetime allow a considerable revenue . but that prince have not be marry long before he die , and leave the princess very young . the sultan , out of brotherly love and friendship , take upon himself the care of he niece 's education , and bring she up in he palace with the three prince , where she singular beauty and personal accomplishment , join to a sprightly disposition and irreproachable conduct , distinguish she among all the princess of she time . the sultan , she uncle , propose to get she married , when she arrive at a proper age , to some neighbouring prince , and be think seriously about it , when he perceive that the three prince he son have all fall in love with she . he be very much concern , owe to the difficulty he foresee whether the two younger would consent to yield to they elder brother . he speak to each of they apart ; and after have remonstrate on the impossibility of one princess be the wife of three person , and the trouble they would create if they persist , he do all he could to persuade they to abide by a declaration of the princess in favor of one of they ; or to suffer she to be marry to a foreign prince . but as he find they obstinate , he send for they all together , and say to they , ` Children , since I have not be able to persuade you no longer to aspire to marry the princess you cousin ; and as I have no inclination to force she to marry any of you , I have think of a plan which will please you all , and preserve union among you , if you will but follow my advice . I think it would be best , if every one travel separately into a different country , so that you might not meet each other : and as you know I delight in every thing that be rare and singular , I promise my niece in marriage to he that shall bring I the most extraordinary curiosity ; and for travel expense , I will give each of you a sum befitting you rank and the purchase of the curiosity you search . ' as the three prince be always submissive and obedient to the sultan 's will , and each flatter himself that fortune would favor he , they all consent . the sultan give they the money he promise ; and that very day they issue order in preparation for they travels , and take leave of the sultan , that they might be ready to set out early the next morning . they all go out at the same gate of the city , each dress like a merchant , attend by a trusty officer dress like a slave , all well mount and equip . they go the first day 's journey together ; and sleep at the first inn , where the road divide into three different track . at night when they be at supper together , they agree to travel for a year , and to make that inn they rendezvous ; that the first that come should wait for the rest ; that as they have all three take leave together of the sultan , they should all return together . the next morning by break of day , after they have embrace and wish each other good success , they mount they horse , and each take a different road . Prince Houssain , the eldest brother , who have hear wonder of the extent , strength , riches , and splendor of the kingdom of Bisnagar , bent he course towards the indian coast ; and , after three month travel with different caravan , sometimes over desert and barren mountain , and sometimes through populous and fertile country , he arrive at Bisnagar , the capital of the kingdom of that name and the residence of its king . he lodge at a khan appoint for foreign merchant ; and have learn that there be four principal quarter where merchant of all sort keep they shop , in the midst of which stand the castle , or rather the king 's palace , as the center of the city , surround by three court , and each gate two league distant from the other , he go to one of these quarter the next day . Prince Houssain could not see this quarter without admiration . it be large , and divide into several street , all vaulted and shaded from the sun , and yet very light . the shop be all of the same size and proportion ; and all that deal in the same sort of merchandise , as well as the craftsman , live in one street . the multitude of shop stock with the finest linen from several part of India , some paint in the brightest color , with man , landscape , tree , and flower ; silk and brocade from Persia , China , and other place ; porcelain from Japan and China , foot carpet of all size , -- all this surprise he so much that he know not how to believe he own eye ; but when he come to the shop of the goldsmith and jeweller -lrb-B- for those two trade be exercise by the same merchant -rrb-B- , he be dazzle by the lustre of the pearl , diamond , ruby , emerald , and other precious stone expose for sale . but if he be amaze at see so many riches in one place , he be much more surprised when he come to judge of the wealth of the whole kingdom by consider that except the BrahminsS and minister of the idol , who profess a life retire from worldly vanity , there be not a indian , man or woman , through the extent of that kingdom , who do not wear necklace , bracelet , and ornament about they leg and foot , make of pearl and other precious stone . another thing Prince Houssain particularly admire be the great number of rose-sellers , who crowd the street ; for the IndiansS be such lover of that flower , that not one will stir without a nosegay in he hand , or a garland on he head ; and the merchant keep they in pot in they shop , so that the air of the whole quarter , however large , be perfectly perfumed . after Prince Houssain have run through the quarter , street by street , he thought fully occupy by the riches he have see , he be very much tired , and a merchant civilly invite he to sit down in he shop . he accept the offer ; but have not be seat long before he see a crier pass by with a piece of carpet on he arm , about six foot square , and cry it at thirty purse . the prince call to the crier , and ask to see the carpet , which seem to he to be value at a exorbitant price , not only for its size , but the meanness of the stuff . when he have examine it well , he tell the crier that he could not comprehend how so small and poor a piece could be price so high . the crier , who take he for a merchant , reply , ` Sir , if this price seem so extravagant to you , you amazement will be greater when I tell you I have order to raise it to forty purse , and not to part with it for less . ' ` certainly , ' answer Prince Houssain , ` it must have something very extraordinary about it , which I know nothing of . ' ` you have guess right , sir , ' reply the crier , ` and will own as much when you come to know that whoever sit on this piece of carpet may be transport in a instant wherever he desire to go without be stop by any obstacle . ' at this the Prince of the Indies , consider that the principal motive of he journey be to carry some singular curiosity home to the sultan he father , think that be could not meet with anything which could give he more satisfaction . ` if the carpet , ' say he to the crier , ` have the virtue you assign it , I shall not think forty purse too much but shall make you a present besides . ' ` Sir , ' reply the crier , ` I have tell you the truth ; and it will be a easy matter to convince you of it , as soon as you have make the bargain for forty purse , by experiment . but as I suppose you have not so much with you , and that I must go with you to the khan where you lodge , with the leave of the master of the shop we will go into he back shop , and I will spread the carpet ; and when we have both sit down , and you have form the wish to be transport into you room at the khan , if we be not transport thither it shall be no bargain . as to you present , as I be pay for my trouble by the seller , I shall receive it as a favor , and be very much oblige to you for it . ' the prince accept the condition , and conclude the bargain ; and have obtain the master 's leave , they go into he back shop ; they both sit down on the carpet , and as soon as the prince wish to be transport into he room at the khan , he find himself and the crier there , and as he want no more convincing proof of the virtue of the carpet , he count to the crier forty purse of gold , and give he twenty piece for himself . in this manner Prince Houssain become the possessor of the carpet , and be overjoy that on he arrival at Bisnagar he have find so rare a treasure , which he never doubt would gain he the Princess Nouronnihar . in short he look upon it as a impossible thing for the prince , he younger brother , to meet with anything to compare with it . it be in he power , by sit on this carpet , to be at the place of rendezvous that very day ; but as he be oblige to wait for he brother , as they have agree , and as he be curious to see the king of Bisnagar and he court , and to learn about the law , custom , and religion of the kingdom , he choose to make a longer abode there . it be a custom of the King of Bisnagar to give audience to all strange merchant once a week ; and Prince Houssain , who remain incognito , see he often ; and as he be handsome , clever , and extremely polite , he easily distinguish himself among the merchant , and be prefer before they all by the sultan , who ask he about the Sultan of the Indies , and the government , strength , and riches of he dominion . the rest of he time the prince spend in see what be most remarkable in and about the city ; and among other thing he visit a temple , all build of brass . it be ten cubit square , and fifteen high ; and the greatest ornament to it be a idol of the height of a man , of massy gold : its eye be two ruby , set so artificially , that it seem to look at those who look at it , on whichever side they turn . besides this , there be another not less curious , in a village in the midst of a plain of about ten acre , which be a delicious garden full of rose and the choicest flower , surround with a small wall breast high , to keep the cattle out . in the midst of this plain be raise a terrace , a man 's height , so nicely pave that the whole pavement seem to be but one single stone . a temple be erect in the middle of this terrace , with a dome about fifty cubit high , which might be see for several league round . it be thirty cubit long , and twenty broad , build of red marble , highly polish . the inside of the dome be adorn with three row of fine painting , in good taste : and there be not a place in the whole temple but be embellish with painting , bas-reliefs , and figure of idol from top to bottom . every night and morning there be ceremony perform in this temple , which be always succeed by sport , concert , dancing , singing , and feast . the minister of the temple and the inhabitant of the place have nothing to live on but the offering of pilgrim , who come in crowd from the most distant part of the kingdom to perform they vow . Prince Houssain be also spectator of a solemn feast , which be celebrate every year at the court of Bisnagar , at which all the governor of province , commander of fortified place , all the governor and judge of town , and the BrahminsS most celebrate for they learning , be oblige to be present ; and some live so far off that they be four month in come . this assembly , compose of innumerable multitude of IndiansS , meet in a plain of vast extent , as far as the eye could reach . in the center of this plain be a square of great length and breadth , close on one side by a large scaffolding of nine story , support by forty pillar , raise for the king and he court , and those stranger whom he admit to audience once a week . inside , it be adorn and furnish magnificently ; and on the outside be paint fine landscape , wherein all sort of beast , bird , and insect , even fly and gnat , be draw as naturally as possible . other scaffold of at least four or five story , and paint almost all alike , form the other three side . on each side of the square , at some little distance from each other , be range a thousand elephant , sumptuously harness , each have upon he back a square wooden castle , finely gilt , in which be musician and actor . the trunk , ear , and body of these elephant be paint with cinnabar and other color , represent grotesque figure . but what Prince Houssain most of all admire be to see the largest of these elephant stand with he four foot on a post fix into the earth , two foot high , play and beat time with he trunk to the music . besides this , he admire another elephant as big , stand on a board , which be lay across a strong beam about ten foot high , with a great weight at the other end which balance he , while he keep time with the music by the motion of he body and trunk . Prince Houssain might have make a longer stay in the kingdom and court of Bisnagar , where he would have see other wonder , till the last day of the year , whereon he and he brother have appoint to meet . but he be so well satisfy with what he have see , and he thought run so much upon the Princess Nouronnihar , that he fancy he should be the more easy and happy the nearer he be to she . after he have pay the master of the khan for he apartment , and tell he the hour when he might come for the key , without tell he how he should go , he shut the door , put the key on the outside , and spread the carpet , he and the officer he have bring with he sit down on it , and , as soon as he have wish , be transport to the inn at which he and he brother be to meet , where he pass for a merchant till they come . Prince Ali , the second brother , travel into Persia with a caravan , and after four month ' travel arrive at Schiraz , which be then the capital of the kingdom of Persia , and have on the way make friend with some merchant , pass for a jeweller , and lodge in the same khan with they . the next morning , while the merchant be open they bale of merchandise , Prince Ali take a walk into that quarter of the town where they sell precious stone , gold and silver work , brocade , silk , fine linen , and other choice and valuable merchandise , which be at Schiraz call the bezestein . it be a spacious and well-built place , arch over , and support by large pillar ; along the wall , within and without , be shop . Prince Ali soon ramble through the bezestein , and with admiration judge of the riches of the place by the prodigious quantity of most precious merchandise there expose to view . but among all the crier who pass backwards and forwards with several sort of thing to sell , he be not a little surprised to see one who hold in he hand a ivory tube about a foot in length and about a inch thick , and cry it at thirty purse . at first he think the crier mad , and to make sure , go to a shop , and say to the merchant , who stand at the door , ` Pray , sir , be not that man mad ? if he be not , I be very much deceive . ' ` indeed , sir , ' answer the merchant , ` he be in he right sens yesterday , and I can assure you he be one of the ablest crier we have , and the most employ of any when anything valuable be to be sell ; and if he cry the ivory tube at thirty purse , it must be worth as much , or more , for some reason or other which do not appear . he will come by presently , and we will call he ; in the meantime sit down on my sofa and rest yourself . ' Prince Ali accept the merchant 's oblige offer , and presently the crier pass by . the merchant call he by he name ; and point to the prince , say to he , ` tell that gentleman , who ask I if you be in you right sens , what you mean by cry that ivory tube , which seem not to be worth much , at thirty purse : I should be very much amaze myself , if I do not know you be a sensible man . ' the crier , address himself to Prince Ali , say , ` Sir , you be not the only person that take I for a madman on account of this tube ; you shall judge yourself whether I be or no , when I have tell you its peculiarity . First , sir , ' pursue the crier , present the ivory tube to the prince , ` observe that this tube be furnish with a glass at both end ; by look through one of they you see whatever object you wish to behold . ' ` I be , ' say the prince , ` ready to make you all proper reparation for the scandal I have throw on you , if you will make the truth of what you say appear ' ; and as he have the ivory tube in he hand , he say , ` Show I at which of these end I must look . ' the crier show he , and he look through , wish at the same time to see the sultan , he father . he immediately behold he in perfect health , sit on he throne , in the midst of he council . afterwards , as there be nothing in the world so dear to he , after the sultan , as the Princess Nouronnihar , he wish to see she , and see she laughing , and in a pleasant humor , with she woman about she . Prince Ali need no other proof to persuade he that this tube be the most valuable thing , not only in the city of Schiraz , but in all the world ; and he believe that , if he should neglect it , he would never meet again with such another rarity . he say to the crier , ` I be very sorry that I should have entertain so bad a opinion of you , but hope to make you amends by buy the tube , so tell I the lowest price the seller have fix upon it . come with I , and I will pay you the money . ' the crier assure he that he last order be to take no less than forty purse ; and , if he dispute the truth of what he say , he would take he to he employer . the prince believe he , take he to the khan where he lodge , count out the money , and receive the tube . Prince Ali be overjoy at he bargain ; and persuade himself that , as he brother would not be able to meet with anything so rare and marvellous , the Princess Nouronnihar would be he wife . he think now of visit the court of Persia incognito , and see whatever be curious in and about Schiraz , till the caravan with which he come return back to the Indies . when the caravan be ready to set out , the prince join they , and arrive without any accident or trouble at the place of rendezvous , where he find Prince Houssain , and both wait for Prince Ahmed . Prince Ahmed take the road to Samarcand ; and the day after he arrival there go , as he brother have do , into the bezestein . he have not walk long before he hear a crier , who have a artificial apple in he hand , cry it at five-and-thirty purse . he stop the crier , and say to he , ` let I see that apple , and tell I what virtue or extraordinary property it have , to be value at so high a rate . ' ` Sir , ' say the crier , put it into he hand , ` if you look at the outside of this apple , it be very ordinary ; but if you consider the great use and benefit it be to mankind , you will say it be invaluable . he who possess it be master of a great treasure . it cure all sick person of the most mortal disease , fever , pleurisy , plague , or other malignant distemper ; and , if the patient be die , it will immediately restore he to perfect health ; and this be do after the easiest manner in the world , merely by the patient smell the apple . ' ` if one may believe you , ' reply Prince Ahmed , ` the virtue of this apple be wonderful , and it be indeed valuable : but what ground have a plain man like myself , who may wish to become the purchaser , to be persuade that there be no deception or exaggeration in the high praise you bestow on it ? ' ` Sir , ' reply the crier , ` the thing be know and aver by the whole city of Samarcand ; but , without go any further , ask all these merchant you see here , and hear what they say ; several of they would not have be alive this day if they have not make use of this excellent remedy . it be the result of the study and experience of a celebrated philosopher of this city , who apply himself all he life to the knowledge of plant and mineral , and at last perform such surprising cure in this city as will never be forget ; but he die suddenly himself , before he could apply he own sovereign remedy , and leave he wife and a great many young child behind he in very indifferent circumstance ; to support she family , and provide for she child , she have resolve to sell it . ' while the crier be tell Prince Ahmed the virtue of the artificial apple , a great many person come about they , and confirm what he say ; and one among the rest say he have a friend dangerously ill , whose life be despair of , which be a favourable opportunity to show Prince Ahmed the experiment . upon which Prince Ahmed tell the crier he would give he forty purse if he cure the sick person by let he smell at it . the crier , who have order to sell it at that price , say to Prince Ahmed , ` come , sir , let we go and make the experiment , and the apple shall be yours ; it be a undoubted fact that it will always have the same effect as it already have have in recover from death many sick person whose life be despair of . ' the experiment succeed , and the prince , after he have count out to the crier forty purse , and the other have deliver the apple to he , wait with the greatest impatience for the first caravan that should return to the Indies . in the meantime he see all that be curious in and about Samarcand , especially the valley of Sogda , so call from the river which water it , and be reckon by the ArabiansS to be one of the four paradise of this world , for the beauty of its field and garden and fine palace , and for its fertility in fruit of all sort , and all the other pleasure enjoy there in the fine season . at last Prince Ahmed join the first caravan that return to the Indies , and arrive in perfect health at the inn where the PrincesS Houssain and Ali be wait for he . Prince Ali , who be there some time before Prince Ahmed , ask Prince Houssain , who get there first , how long he have be there ; he tell he three month : to which he reply , ` then certainly you have not be very far . ' ` I will tell you nothing now , ' say Prince Houssain , ` but only assure you I be more than three month travel to the place I go to . ' ` but then , ' reply Prince Ali , ` you make a short stay there . ' ` indeed , brother , ' say Prince Houssain , ` you be mistake : I reside at one place over four or five month , and might have stay longer . ' ` unless you fly back , ' reply Prince Ali again , ` I can not comprehend how you can have be three month here , as you would make I believe . ' ` I tell you the truth , ' add Prince Houssain , ` and it be a riddle which I shall not explain till we brother Ahmed come ; then I will let you know what curiosity I have bring home from my travels . I know not what you have get , but believe it to be some trifle , because I do not see that you baggage be increase . ' ` and pray what have you bring ? ' reply Prince Ali , ` for I can see nothing but a ordinary piece of carpet , with which you cover you sofa , and as you seem to make what you have bring a secret , you can not take it amiss that I do the same . ' ` I consider the rarity which I have purchase , ' reply Prince Houssain , ` to excel all other whatever , and should not have any objection to show it you , and make you agree that it be so , and at the same time tell you how I come by it , without be in the least apprehensive that what you have get be better . but we ought to wait till we brother Ahmed arrive , that we may all communicate we good fortune to each other . ' Prince Ali would not enter into a dispute with Prince Houssain , but be persuade that , if he perspective glass be not preferable , it be impossible it should be inferior , and therefore agree to wait till Prince Ahmed arrive , to produce he purchase . when Prince Ahmed come , they embrace and compliment each other on the happiness of meeting together at the place they set out from . then Prince Houssain , as the elder brother , say , ` BrothersS , we shall have time enough hereafter to entertain ourselves with the particulars of we travels : let we come to that which be of the greatest importance for we to know ; let we not conceal from each other the curiosity we have bring home , but show they , that we may do ourselves justice beforehand and see to which of we the sultan we father may give the preference . ` to set the example , ' continue Prince Houssain , ` I will tell you that the rarity which I have bring from my travels to the kingdom of Bisnagar , be the carpet on which I sit , which look but ordinary and make no show ; but , when I have declare its virtue to you , you will be strike with admiration , and will confess you never hear of anything like it . whoever sit on it as we do , and desire to be transport to any place , be it ever so far off , be immediately carry thither . I make the experiment myself before I pay down the forty purse , and when I have fully satisfied my curiosity at the court of Bisnagar , and have a mind to return , I make use of no other means than this wonderful carpet for myself and servant , who can tell you how long we be come hither . I will show you both the experiment whenever you please . I expect you to tell I whether what you have bring be to be compare to this carpet . ' here Prince Houssain end , and Prince Ali say , ` I must own , brother , that you carpet be one of the most surprising thing imaginable , if it have , as I do not doubt in the least , that property you speak of . but you must allow that there may be other thing , I will not say more , but at least as wonderful , in another way ; and to convince you there be , here be a ivory tube , which appear to the eye no more a rarity than you carpet . it cost I as much , and I be as well satisfy with my purchase as you can be with yours ; and you will be so just as to own that I have not be cheat , when you know by experience that by look at one end you see whatever you wish to behold . take it , ' add Prince Ali , present the tube to he , ` make trial of it yourself . ' Prince Houssain take the ivory tube from Prince Ali , and clap that end to he eye which Prince Ali show he , to see the Princess Nouronnihar , and to know how she be , when Prince Ali and Prince Ahmed , who keep they eye fix upon he , be extremely surprised to see he countenance change suddenly with extraordinary pain and grief . Prince Houssain would not give they time to ask what be the matter , but cry out , ` AlasS ! prince , to what purpose have we undertake long and fatigue journey ? in a few moment we lovely princess will breathe she last . I see she in she bed , surround by she woman and attendant , who be all in tear . take the tube , behold for yourselve the miserable state she be in . ' Prince Ali take the tube out of Prince Houssain 's hand and after he have look , present it to Prince Ahmed . when Prince Ahmed see that the Princess Nouronnihar 's end be so near , he address himself to he two brother , and say , ` PrincesS , the Princess Nouronnihar , the object of all we vow , be indeed at death 's door ; but provide we make haste and lose no time , we may preserve she life . ' then he take out the artificial apple , and show it to the prince he brother , say to they , ` this apple which you see here cost as much as either the carpet or tube . the opportunity now present itself to show you its wonderful virtue . not to keep you longer in suspense , if a sick person smell it , though in the last agony , it restore he to perfect health immediately . I have make the experiment , and can show you its wonderful effect on the Princess Nouronnihar , if we make all haste to assist she . ' ` if that be all , ' reply Prince Houssain , ` we can not make more haste than by transport ourselves instantly into she room by the means of my carpet . come , lose no time ; sit down on it by I ; it be large enough to hold we all three : but first let we give order to we servant to set out immediately , and join we at the palace . ' as soon as the order be give , Prince Ali and Prince Ahmed go and sit down by Prince Houssain , and all three frame the same wish , and be transport into the Princess Nouronnihar 's chamber . the presence of the three prince , who be so little expected , frighten the princess 's woman and attendant , who could not comprehend by what enchantment three man should be among they ; for they do not know they at first , and the attendant be ready to fall upon they , as people who have get into a part of the palace where they be not allow to come ; but they presently recollect and find they mistake . Prince Ahmed no sooner see himself in Nouronnihar 's room , and perceive the princess die , than he rise off the tapestry , as do also the other two prince , and go to the bed-side , and put the apple under she nose . some moment after , the princess open she eye , and turn she head from one side to another , look at the person who stand about she ; she then rise up in the bed , and ask to be dress , just as if she have awake out of a sound sleep . she woman inform she , in a manner that show they joy , that she be oblige to the three prince she cousin , and particularly to Prince Ahmed , for the sudden recovery of she health . she immediately express she joy to see they , and thank they all together , and afterwards Prince Ahmed in particular , and they then retire . while the princess be dress , the prince go to throw themselves at the sultan they father 's foot , and pay they respects to he . the sultan receive and embrace they with the greatest joy , both for they return and for the wonderful recovery of the princess he niece , whom he love as if she have be he own daughter , and who have be give over by the physician . after the usual compliment , the prince present each the curiosity which he have bring : Prince Houssain he carpet , which he have take care not to leave behind he in the princess 's chamber ; Prince Ali he ivory tube , and Prince Ahmed the artificial apple ; and after each have commend he present , when they put it into the sultan 's hand , they beg he to pronounce they fate , and declare to which of they he would give the Princess Nouronnihar for a wife , accord to he promise . the Sultan of the Indies have kindly hear all that the prince have to say , without interrupt they , and be well inform of what have happen in relation to the Princess Nouronnihar 's cure , remain some time silent , as if he be think what answer he should make . at last he break silence , and say to they in term full of wisdom , ` I would declare for one of you , my child , with a great deal of pleasure , if I could do so with justice ; but consider whether I can . it be true , Prince Ahmed , the princess my niece be oblige to you artificial apple for she cure , but let I ask you , whether you could have be so serviceable to she if you have not know by Prince Ali 's tube the danger she be in , and if Prince Houssain 's carpet have not bring you to she so soon ? ` you tube , Prince Ali , inform you and you brother that you be likely to lose the princess you cousin , and so far she be greatly oblige to you . you must also grant that that knowledge would have be of no service without the artificial apple and the carpet . ` and for you , Prince Houssain , consider that it would have be of little use if you have not be acquaint with the princess 's illness by Prince Ali 's tube , and Prince Ahmed have not apply he artificial apple . therefore , as neither the carpet , the ivory tube , nor the artificial apple have the least preference one over the other , but , on the contrary , there be a perfect equality , I can not grant the princess to any one of you , and the only fruit you have reap from you travels be the glory of have equally contribute to restore she to health . ` if this be true , ' add the sultan , ` you see that I must have recourse to other means to determine with certainty in the choice I ought to make among you , and as there be time enough between this and night , I will do it to-day . Go , and get each of you a bow and arrow , and repair to the great plain outside the city , where the horse be exercise . I will soon come to you , and I declare I will give the Princess Nouronnihar to he that shoot the farthest . ` I do not , however , forget to thank you all in general , and each in particular , for the present you bring I . I have a great many rarity in my museum already , but nothing that come up to the carpet , the ivory tube , and the artificial apple , which shall have the first place among they , and shall be preserve carefully , not only for show , but to make a advantageous use of they upon all occasion . ' the three prince have nothing to say against the decision of the sultan . when they be out of he presence , they each provide themselves with a bow and arrow , which they deliver to one of they officer , and go to the plain appoint , follow by a great concourse of people . the sultan do not make they wait long ; and as soon as he arrive , Prince Houssain , as the eldest , take he bow and arrow , and shot first . Prince Ali shoot next , and much beyond he ; and Prince Ahmed last of all ; but it so happen , that nobody could see where he arrow fall ; and , notwithstanding all the search of himself and everybody else , it be not to be find far or near . and though it be believe that he shoot the farthest , and that he therefore deserve the Princess Nouronnihar , it be necessary that he arrow should be find , to make the matter evident and certain ; so , notwithstanding he remonstrance , the sultan determine in favor of Prince Ali , and give order for preparation to be make for the wedding , which be celebrate a few day afterwards with great magnificence .