174 the Owl BrothersS Grimm two or three hundred year ago , when people be far from be so crafty and cunning as they be now-a-day , a extraordinary event take place in a little town . by some mischance one of the great owl , call horn owl , have come from the neighboring wood into the barn of one of the townsfolk in the night-time , and when day break do not dare to venture forth again from she retreat , for fear of the other bird , which raise a terrible outcry whenever she appear . in the morning when the man-servant go into the barn to fetch some straw , he be so mightily alarm at the sight of the owl sit there in a corner , that he run away and announce to he master that a monster , the like of which he have never set eye on in he life , and which could devour a man without the slightest difficulty , be sit in the barn , roll its eye about in its head . `` I know you already , '' say the master , `` you have courage enough to chase a blackbird about the field , but when you see a dead hen lie , you have to get a stick before you go near it . I must go and see for myself what kind of a monster it be , '' add the master , and go quite boldly into the granary and look round he . when , however , he see the strange grim creature with he own eye , he be no less terrify than the servant have be . with two bound he spring out , run to he neighbor , and beg they imploringly to lend he assistance against a unknown and dangerous beast , or else the whole town might be in danger if it be to break loose out of the barn , where it be shut up . a great noise and clamor arise in all the street , the townsman come arm with spear , hay-forks , scythe , and axis , as if they be go out against a enemy ; finally , the senator appear with the burgomaster at they head . when they have draw up in the market-place , they march to the barn , and surround it on all side . Thereupon one of the most courageous of they step forth and enter with he spear lower , but come run out immediately afterwards with a shriek and as pale as death , and could not utter a single word . yet two other venture in , but they fare no better . at last one step forth ; a great strong man who be famous for he warlike deed , and say , `` you will not drive away the monster by merely look at he ; we must be in earnest here , but I see that you have all tune into woman , and not one of you dare to encounter the animal . '' he order they to give he some armor , have a sword and spear bring , and arm himself . all praise he courage , though many fear for he life . the two barn-doors be open , and they see the owl , which in the meantime have perch herself on the middle of a great cross-beam . he have a ladder bring , and when he raise it , and make ready to climb up , they all cry out to he that he be to bear himself bravely , and commend he to St. George , who slew the dragon . when he have just get to the top , and the owl perceive that he have design on she , and be also bewilder by the crowd and the shouting , and know not how to escape , she roll she eye , ruffle she feather , flap she wing , snap she beak , and cry , `` Tuwhit , tuwhoo , '' in a harsh voice . `` strike home ! strike home ! '' scream the crowd outside to the valiant hero . `` any one who be stand where I be stand , '' answer he , `` would not cry , strike home ! '' he certainly do plant he foot one ring higher on the ladder , but then he begin to tremble , and half-fainting , go back again . and now there be no one left who dare to put himself in such danger . `` the monster , '' say they , `` have poison and mortally wound the very strongest man among we , by snap at he and just breathe on he ! be we , too , to risk we life ? '' they take counsel as to what they ought to do to prevent the whole town be destroy . for a long time everything seem to be of no use , but at length the burgomaster find a expedient . `` my opinion , '' say he , `` be that we ought , out of the common purse , to pay for this barn , and whatsoever corn , straw , or hay it contain , and thus indemnify the owner , and then burn down the whole building , and the terrible beast with it . thus no one will have to endanger he life . this be no time for thinking of expense , and niggardliness would be ill apply . '' all agree with he . so they set fire to the barn at all four corner , and with it the owl be miserably burnt . let any one who will not believe it , go thither and inquire for himself .