137 the three Black PrincessesS BrothersS Grimm EAST INDIA be besiege by a enemy who would not retire until he have receive six hundred dollar . then the townsfolk cause it to be proclaim by beat of drum that whosoever be able to procure the money should be burgomaster . now there be a poor fisherman who fish on the lake with he son , and the enemy come and take the son prisoner , and give the father six hundred dollar for he . so the father go and give they to the great man of the town , and the enemy depart , and the fisherman become burgomaster . then it be proclaim that whosoever do not say , `` Mr. Burgomaster , '' should be put to death on the gallows . the son get away again from the enemy , and come to a great forest on a high mountain . the mountain open , and he go into a great enchanted castle , wherein chair , table , and bench be all hang with black . then come three young princess who be entirely dress in black , but have a little white on they face ; they tell he he be not to be afraid , they would not hurt he , and that he could deliver they . he say he would gladly do that , if he do but know how . at this , they tell he he must for a whole year not speak to they and also not look at they , and what he want to have he be just to ask for , and if they dare give he a answer they would do so . when he have be there for a long while he say he should like to go to he father , and they tell he he might go . he be to take with he this purse with money , put on this coat , and in a week he must be back there again . then he be catch up , and be instantly in East India . he could no longer find he father in the fisherman 's hut , and ask the people where the poor fisherman could be , and they tell he he must not say that , or he would come to the gallows . then he go to he father and say , `` Fisherman , how hast thou get here ? '' then the father say , `` Thou must not say that , if the great man of the town know of that , thou wouldst come to the gallows . '' he , however , would not stop , and be bring to the gallows . when he be there , he say , `` O , my master , just give I leave to go to the old fisherman 's hut . '' then he put on he old smock-frock , and come back to the great man , and say , `` do ye not now see ? Am I not the son of the poor fisherman ? do I not earn bread for my father and mother in this dress ? '' Hereupon he father know he again , and beg he pardon , and take he home with he , and then he relate all that have happen to he , and how he have get into a forest on a high mountain , and the mountain have open and he have go into a enchant castle , where all be black , and three young princess have come to he who be black except a little white on they face . and they have tell he not to fear , and that he could deliver they . then he mother say that might very likely not be a good thing to do , and that he ought to take a holy-water vessel with he , and drop some boil water on they face . he go back again , and he be in great fear , and he drop the water on they face as they be sleep , and they all turn half-white . then all the three princess spring up , and say , `` Thou accursed dog , we blood shall cry for vengeance on thee ! now there be no man bear in the world , nor will any ever be bear who can set we free ! we have still three brother who be bind by seven chain they shall tear thee to piece . '' then there be a loud shriek all over the castle , and he spring out of the window , and break he leg , and the castle sink into the earth again , the mountain shut to again , and no one know where the castle have stand .