25 the seven Ravens BrothersS Grimm there be once a man who have seven son , and still he have no daughter , however much he wish for one . at length he wife again give he hope of a child , and when it come into the world it be a girl . the joy be great , but the child be sickly and small , and have to be privately baptize on account of its weakness . the father send one of the boy in haste to the spring to fetch water for the baptism . the other six go with he , and as each of they want to be first to fill it , the jug fall into the well . there they stand and do not know what to do , and none of they dare to go home . as they still do not return , the father grow impatient , and say , `` they have certainly forget it for some game , the wicked boy ! '' he become afraid that the girl would have to die without be baptize , and in he anger cry , `` I wish the boy be all turn into raven . '' hardly be the word speak before he hear a whir of wing over he head in the air , look up and see seven coal-black raven fly away . the parent could not recall the curse , and however sad they be at the loss of they seven son , they still to some extent comfort themselves with they dear little daughter , who soon grow strong and every day become more beautiful . for a long time she do not know that she have have brother , for she parent be careful not to mention they before she , but one day she accidentally hear some people say of herself , `` that the girl be certainly beautiful , but that in reality she be to blame for the misfortune which have befall she seven brother . '' then she be much trouble , and go to she father and mother and ask if it be true that she have have brother , and what have become of they ? the parent now dare keep the secret no longer , but say that what have befall she brother be the will of Heaven , and that she birth have only be the innocent cause . but the maiden take it to heart daily , and think she must deliver she brother . she have no rest or peace until she set out secretly , and go forth into the wide world to trace out she brother and set they free , let it cost what it might . she take nothing with she but a little ring belong to she parent as a keepsake , a loaf of bread against hunger , a little pitcher of water against thirst , and a little chair as a provision against weariness . and now she go continually onwards , far , far to the very end of the world . then she come to the sun , but it be too hot and terrible , and devour little child . hastily she run away , and run to the moon , but it be far too cold , and also awful and malicious , and when it see the child , it say , `` I smell , I smell the flesh of man . '' on this she run swiftly away , and come to the star , which be kind and good to she , and each of they sit on its own particular little chair . but the morning star arise , and give she the drumstick of a chicken , and say , `` if you thou hast not that drumstick thou canst not open the glass mountain , and in the glass mountain be thy brother . '' the maiden take the drumstick , wrap it carefully in a cloth , and go onwards again until she come to the glass mountain . the door be shut , and she think she would take out the drumstick ; but when she undo the cloth , it be empty , and she have lose the good star 's present . what be she now to do ? she wish to rescue she brother , and have no key to the glass mountain . the good sister take a knife , cut off one of she little finger , put it in the door , and succeed in open it . when she have go inside , a little dwarf come to meet she , who say , `` my child , what be you look for ? '' `` I be look for my brother , the seven raven , '' she reply . the dwarf say , `` the lord raven be not at home , but if you will wait here until they come , step in . '' Thereupon the little dwarf carry the raven ' dinner in , on seven little plate , and in seven little glass , and the little sister eat a morsel from each plate , and from each little glass she take a sip , but in the last little glass she drop the ring which she have bring away with she . suddenly she hear a whir of wing and a rush through the air , and then the little dwarf say , `` now the lord raven be fly home . '' then they come , and want to eat and drink , and look for they little plate and glass . then say one after the other , `` who have eat something from my plate ? who have drunk out of my little glass ? it be a human mouth . '' and when the seventh come to the bottom of the glass , the ring roll against he mouth . then he look at it , and see that it be a ring belong to he father and mother , and say , `` God grant that we sister may be here , and then we shall be free . '' when the maiden , who be stand behind the door watching , hear that wish , she come forth , and on this all the raven be restore to they human form again . and they embrace and kiss each other , and go joyfully home .