the tale of TIMMY TIPTOES Beatrix Potter once upon a time there be a little fat comfortable gray squirrel , call Timmy Tiptoes . he have a nest thatch with leaf in the top of a tall tree ; and he have a little squirrel wife call Goody . TIMMY TIPTOES sit out , enjoy the breeze ; he whisk he tail and chuckle -- `` little wife Goody , the nut be ripe ; we must lay up a store for winter and spring . '' Goody Tiptoes be busy push moss under the thatch -- `` the nest be so snug , we shall be sound asleep all winter . '' `` then we shall wake up all the thinner , when there be nothing to eat in spring-time , '' reply prudent Timothy . when Timmy and Goody TiptoesS come to the nut thicket , they find other squirrel be there already . Timmy take off he jacket and hang it on a twig ; they work away quietly by themselves . EVERY day they make several journey and pick quantity of nut . they carry they away in bag , and store they in several hollow stump near the tree where they have build they nest . when these stump be full , they begin to empty the bag into a hole high up a tree , that have belong to a wood-pecker ; the nut rattle down -- down -- down inside . `` how shall you ever get they out again ? it be like a money-box ! '' say Goody . `` I shall be much thinner before spring-time , my love , '' say Timmy Tiptoes , peep into the hole . THEY do collect quantity -- because they do not lose they ! squirrel who bury they nut in the ground lose more than half , because they can not remember the place . the most forgetful squirrel in the wood be call Silvertail . he begin to dig , and he could not remember . and then he dig again and find some nut that do not belong to he ; and there be a fight . and other squirrel begin to dig , -- the whole wood be in commotion ! UNFORTUNATELY , just at this time a flock of little bird fly by , from bush to bush , search for green caterpillar and spider . there be several sort of little bird , twitter different song . the first one sing -- `` who be bin digging-up MY nut ? who be - been-digging - up MY nut ? '' and another sing -- `` little bita bread and-no-cheese ! little bit-a-bread a ' - no - cheese ! '' the squirrel follow and listen . the first little bird fly into the bush where Timmy and Goody TiptoesS be quietly tie up they bag , and it sing -- `` who be - bin digging-up MY nut ? who be be digging-up my - nut ? '' Timmy Tiptoes go on with he work without reply ; indeed , the little bird do not expect a answer . it be only sing its natural song , and it mean nothing at all . BUT when the other squirrel hear that song , they rush upon Timmy Tiptoes and cuff and scratch he , and upset he bag of nut . the innocent little bird which have cause all the mischief , fly away in a fright ! Timmy roll over and over , and then turn tail and flee towards he nest , follow by a crowd of squirrel shout -- `` who be - be digging-up my-nuts ? '' THEY catch he and drag he up the very same tree , where there be the little round hole , and they push he in . the hole be much too small for Timmy Tiptoes ' figure . they squeeze he dreadfully , it be a wonder they do not break he rib . `` we will leave he here till he confess , '' say Silvertail Squirrel , and he shout into the hole -- `` who be - been-digging-up my-nuts ? '' TIMMY TIPTOES make no reply ; he have tumble down inside the tree , upon half a peck of nut belong to himself . he lay quite stunned and still . GOODY TIPTOES pick up the nut bag and go home . she make a cup of tea for Timmy ; but he do not come and do not come . Goody Tiptoes pass a lonely and unhappy night . next morning she venture back to the nut-bushes to look for he ; but the other unkind squirrel drive she away . she wander all over the wood , call -- `` Timmy Tiptoes ! Timmy TiptoesS ! oh , where be Timmy Tiptoes ? '' in the meantime Timmy Tiptoes come to he sens . he find himself tuck up in a little moss bed , very much in the dark , feel sore ; it seem to be under ground . Timmy cough and groan , because he rib hurt he . there be a chirpy noise , and a small striped Chipmunk appear with a night light , and hope he feel better ? it be most kind to Timmy Tiptoes ; it lend he its nightcap ; and the house be full of provision . the Chipmunk explain that it have rain nut through the top of the tree -- `` besides , I find a few bury ! '' it laugh and chuckle when it hear Timmy 's story . while Timmy be confine to bed , it ` tice he to eat quantity -- `` but how shall I ever get out through that hole unless I thin myself ? my wife will be anxious ! '' `` just another nut -- or two nut ; let I crack they for you , '' say the Chipmunk . Timmy Tiptoes grow fatter and fatter ! NOW Goody Tiptoes have set to work again by herself . she do not put any more nut into the woodpecker 's hole , because she have always doubt how they could be get out again . she hide they under a tree root ; they rattle down , down , down . once when Goody empty a extra big bagful , there be a decide squeak ; and next time Goody bring another bagful , a little striped Chipmunk scramble out in a hurry . `` it be get perfectly full - up down-stairs ; the sitting-room be full , and they be roll along the passage ; and my husband , Chippy Hackee , have run away and leave I . what be the explanation of these shower of nut ? '' `` I be sure I beg you pardon ; I do not not know that anybody live here , '' say Mrs. Goody Tiptoes ; `` but where be Chippy Hackee ? my husband , Timmy Tiptoes , have run away too . '' `` I know where Chippy be ; a little bird tell I , '' say Mrs. Chippy Hackee . SHE lead the way to the woodpecker 's tree , and they listen at the hole . down below there be a noise of nut cracker , and a fat squirrel voice and a thin squirrel voice be sing together -- `` my little old man and I fall out , how shall we bring this matter about ? bring it about as well as you can , and get you go , you little old man ! '' `` you could squeeze in , through that little round hole , '' say Goody Tiptoes . `` yes , I could , '' say the Chipmunk , `` but my husband , Chippy Hackee , bite ! '' down below there be a noise of crack nut and nibble ; and then the fat squirrel voice and the thin squirrel voice sing -- `` for the diddlum day Day diddle dum di ! Day diddle diddle dum day ! '' THEN Goody peep in at the hole , and call down -- `` Timmy Tiptoes ! oh fie , Timmy TiptoesS ! '' and Timmy reply , `` be that you , Goody Tiptoes ? why , certainly ! '' he come up and kiss Goody through the hole ; but he be so fat that he could not get out . Chippy Hackee be not too fat , but he do not want to come ; he stay down below and chuckle . and so it go on for a fortnight ; till a big wind blow off the top of the tree , and open up the hole and let in the rain . then Timmy TiptoesS come out , and go home with a umbrella . BUT Chippy Hackee continue to camp out for another week , although it be uncomfortable . AT last a large bear come walk through the wood . perhaps he also be look for nut ; he seem to be sniff around . CHIPPY HACKEE go home in a hurry ! and when Chippy Hackee get home , he find he have catch a cold in he head ; and he be more uncomfortable still . and now Timmy and Goody TiptoesS keep they nut-store fasten up with a little padlock . and whenever that little bird see the Chipmunks , he sing -- `` who be - be - digging-up my-nuts ? who be be digging-up my-nuts ? '' but nobody ever answer ! the end