165 the Griffin BrothersS Grimm there be once upon a time a King , but where he reign and what he be call , I do not know . he have no son , but a only daughter who have always be ill , and no doctor have be able to cure she . then it be foretell to the King that he daughter should eat herself well with a apple . so he order it to be proclaim throughout the whole of he kingdom , that whosoever bring he daughter a apple with which she could eat herself well , should have she to wife , and be King . this become know to a peasant who have three son , and he say to the eldest , `` go out into the garden and take a basketful of those beautiful apple with the red cheek and carry they to the court ; perhaps the King 's daughter will be able to eat herself well with they , and then thou wilt marry she and be King . '' the lad do so , and set out . when he have go a short way he meet a little iron man who ask he what he have there in the basket , to which reply Uele , for so be he name , `` frog ' leg . '' on this the little man say , `` well , so shall it be , and remain , '' and go away . at length Uele arrive at the palace , and make it know that he have bring apple which would cure the King 's daughter if she eat they . this delight the King hugely , and he cause Uele to be bring before he ; but , alas ! when he open the basket , instead of have apple in it he have frog ' leg which be still kick about . on this the King grow angry , and have he drive out of the house . when he get home he tell he father how it have fare with he . then the father send the next son , who be call Seame , but all go with he just as it have go with Uele . he also meet the little iron man , who ask what he have there in the basket . Seame say , `` hog ' bristle , '' and the iron man say , `` well , so shall it be , and remain . '' when Seame get to the King 's palace and say he bring apple with which the King 's daughter might eat herself well , they do not want to let he go in , and say that one fellow have already be there , and have treat they as if they be fool . Seame , however , maintain that he certainly have the apple , and that they ought to let he go in . at length they believe he , and lead he to the King . but when he uncover the basket , he have but hog ' bristle . this enrage the King most terribly , so he cause Seame to be whip out of the house . when he get home he relate all that have befall he , then the youngest boy , whose name be Hans , but who be always call Stupid Hans , come and ask he father if he might go with some apple . `` oh ! '' say the father , `` thou wouldst be just the right fellow for such a thing ! if the clever one can not manage it , what canst thou do ? '' the boy , however , do not believe he , and say , `` indeed , father , I wish to go . '' `` just get away , thou stupid fellow , thou must wait till thou art wiser , '' say the father to that , and turn he back . Hans , however , pull at the back of he smock-frock and say , `` indeed , father , I wish to go . '' `` well , then , so far as I be concerned thou mayst go , but thou wilt soon come home again ! '' reply the old man in a spiteful voice . the boy , however , be tremendously delighted and jump for joy . `` well , act like a fool ! thou growest more stupid every day ! '' say the father again . Hans , however , do not care about that , and do not let it spoil he pleasure , but as it be then night , he think he might as well wait until the morrow , for he could not get to court that day . all night long he could not sleep in he bed , and if he do doze for a moment , he dream of beautiful maiden , of palace , of gold , and of silver , and all kind of thing of that sort . early in the morning , he go forth on he way , and directly afterwards the little shabby-looking man in he iron clothes , come to he and ask what he be carry in the basket . Hans give he the answer that he be carry apple with which the King 's daughter be to eat herself well . `` then , '' say the little man , `` so shall they be , and remain . '' but at the court they would none of they let Hans go in , for they say two have already be there who have tell they that they be bring apple , and one of they have frog ' leg , and the other hog ' bristle . Hans , however , resolutely maintain that he most certainly have no frog ' leg , but some of the most beautiful apple in the whole kingdom . as he speak so pleasantly , the door-keeper thought he could not be tell a lie , and ask he to go in , and he be right , for when Hans uncover he basket in the King 's presence , golden-yellow apple come tumble out . the King be delighted , and cause some of they to be take to he daughter , and then wait in anxious expectation until news should be bring to he of the effect they have . but before much time have pass by , news be bring to he : but who do you think it be who come ? it be he daughter herself ! as soon as she have eat of those apple , she be cure , and spring out of she bed . the joy the King feel can not be describe ! but now he do not want to give he daughter in marriage to Hans , and say he must first make he a boat which would go quicker on dry land than on water . Hans agree to the condition , and go home , and relate how it have fare with he . then the father send Uele into the forest to make a boat of that kind . he work diligently , and whistle all the time . at mid-day , when the sun be at the highest , come the little iron man and ask what he be make ? Uele give he for answer , `` Wooden bowl for the kitchen . '' the iron man say , `` so it shall be , and remain . '' by evening Uele think he have now make the boat , but when he want to get into it , he have nothing but wooden bowl . the next day Seame go into the forest , but everything go with he just as it have do with Uele . on the third day Stupid Hans go . he work away most industriously , so that the whole forest resound with the heavy stroke , and all the while he sing and whistle right merrily . at mid-day , when it be the hottest , the little man come again , and ask what he be make ? `` a boat which will go quicker on dry land than on the water , '' reply Hans , `` and when I have finish it , I be to have the King 's daughter for my wife . '' `` well , '' say the little man , `` such a one shall it be , and remain . '' in the evening , when the sun have turn into gold , Hans finish he boat , and all that be want for it . he get into it and row to the palace . the boat go as swiftly as the wind . the King see it from afar , but would not give he daughter to Hans yet , and say he must first take a hundred hare out to pasture from early morning until late evening , and if one of they get away , he should not have he daughter . Hans be contented with this , and the next day go with he flock to the pasture , and take great care that none of they run away . before many hour have pass come a servant from the palace , and tell Hans that he must give she a hare instantly , for some visitor have come unexpectedly . Hans , however , be very well aware what that mean , and say he would not give she one ; the King might set some hare soup before he guest next day . the maid , however , would not believe in he refusal , and at last she begin to get angry with he . then Hans say that if the King 's daughter come herself , he would give she a hare . the maid tell this in the palace , and the daughter do go herself . in the meantime , however , the little man come again to Hans , and ask he what he be do there ? he say he have to watch over a hundred hare and see that none of they run away , and then he might marry the King 's daughter and be King . `` good , '' say the little man , `` there be a whistle for thee , and if one of they run away , just whistle with it , and then it will come back again . '' when the King 's daughter come , Hans give she a hare into she apron ; but when she have go about a hundred step with it , he whistle , and the hare jump out of the apron , and before she could turn round be back to the flock again . when the evening come the hare-herd whistle once more , and look to see if all be there , and then drive they to the palace . the King wonder how Hans have be able to take a hundred hare to graze without lose any of they ; he would , however , not give he he daughter yet , and say he must now bring he a feather from the Griffin 's tail . Hans set out at once , and walk straight forwards . in the evening he come to a castle , and there he ask for a night 's lodging , for at that time there be no inn . the lord of the castle promise he that with much pleasure , and ask where he be go ? Hans answer , `` to the Griffin . '' `` oh ! to the Griffin ! they tell I he know everything , and I have lose the key of a iron money-chest ; so you might be so good as to ask he where it be . '' `` yes , indeed , '' say Hans , `` I will do that . '' early the next morning he go onward , and on he way arrive at another castle in which he again stay the night . when the people who live there learn that he be go to the Griffin , they say they have in the house a daughter who be ill , and that they have already try every mean to cure she , but none of they have do she any good , and he might be so kind as to ask the Griffin what would make they daughter healthy again ? Hans say he would willingly do that , and go onward . then he come to a lake , and instead of a ferry-boat , a tall , tall man be there who have to carry everybody across . the man ask Hans whither he be journey ? `` to the Griffin , '' say Hans . `` then when you get to he , '' say the man , `` just ask he why I be force to carry everybody over the lake . '' `` yes , indeed , most certainly I 'll do that , '' say Hans . then the man take he up on he shoulder , and carry he across . at length Hans arrive at the Griffin 's house , but the wife only be at home , and not the Griffin himself . then the woman ask he what he want ? Thereupon he tell she everything ; -- that he have to get a feather out of the Griffin 's tail , and that there be a castle where they have lose the key of they money-chest , and he be to ask the Griffin where it be ? -- that in another castle the daughter be ill , and he be to learn what would cure she ? -- and then not far from thence there be a lake and a man beside it , who be force to carry people across it , and he be very anxious to learn why the man be oblige to do it . then say the woman , `` but look here , my good friend , no Christian can speak to the Griffin ; he devour they all ; but if you like , you can lie down under he bed , and in the night , when he be quite fast asleep , you can reach out and pull a feather out of he tail , and as for those thing which you be to learn , I will ask about they myself . '' Hans be quite satisfied with this , and get under the bed . in the evening , the Griffin come home , and as soon as he enter the room , say , `` wife , I smell a christian . '' `` yes , '' say the woman , `` one be here to-day , but he go away again ; '' and on that the Griffin say no more . in the middle of the night when the Griffin be snore loudly , Hans reach out and pluck a feather from he tail . the Griffin wake up instantly , and say , `` wife , I smell a Christian , and it seem to I that somebody be pull at my tail . '' he wife say , `` Thou hast certainly be dream , and I tell thee before that a Christian be here to-day , but that he go away again . he tell I all kind of thing that in one castle they have lose the key of they money-chest , and could find it nowhere . '' `` oh ! the fool ! '' say the Griffin ; `` the key lie in the wood - house under a log of wood behind the door . '' `` and then he say that in another castle the daughter be ill , and they know no remedy that would cure she . '' `` oh ! the fool ! '' say the Griffin ; `` under the cellar-steps a toad have make its nest of she hair , and if she get she hair back she would be well . '' `` and then he also say that there be a place where there be a lake and a man beside it who be force to carry everybody across . '' `` oh , the fool ! '' say the Griffin ; `` if he only put one man down in the middle , he would never have to carry another across . '' early the next morning the Griffin get up and go out . then Hans come forth from under the bed , and he have a beautiful feather , and have hear what the Griffin have say about the key , and the daughter , and the ferry-man . the Griffin 's wife repeat it all once more to he that he might not forget it , and then he go home again . first he come to the man by the lake , who ask he what the Griffin have say , but Hans reply that he must first carry he across , and then he would tell he . so the man carry he across , and when he be over Hans tell he that all he have to do be to set one person down in the middle of the lake , and then he would never have to carry over any more . the man be hugely delighted , and tell Hans that out of gratitude he would take he once more across , and back again . but Hans say no , he would save he the trouble , he be quite satisfied already , and pursue he way . then he come to the castle where the daughter be ill ; he take she on he shoulder , for she could not walk , and carry she down the cellar-steps and pull out the toad 's nest from beneath the lowest step and give it into she hand , and she spring off he shoulder and up the step before he , and be quite cure . then be the father and mother beyond measure rejoice , and they give Hans gift of gold and of silver , and whatsoever else he wish for , that they give he . and when he get to the other castle he go at once into the wood-house , and find the key under the log of wood behind the door , and take it to the lord of the castle . he also be not a little pleased , and give Hans as a reward much of the gold that be in the chest , and all kind of thing besides , such as cow , and sheep , and goat . when Hans arrive before the King , with all these thing -- with the money , and the gold , and the silver and the cow , sheep and goat , the King ask he how he have come by they . then Hans tell he that the Griffin give every one whatsoever he want . so the King think he himself could make such thing useful , and set out on he way to the Griffin ; but when he get to the lake , it happen that he be the very first who arrive there after Hans , and the man put he down in the middle of it and go away , and the King be drown . Hans , however , marry the daughter , and become King .