the demon with the MATTED HAIR Indian Writer _ this story the teacher tell in Jetavana about a brother who have cease strive after righteousness . Said the teacher to he : `` be it really true that you have cease all strive ? '' -- `` Yes , Blessed one , '' he reply . then the teacher say : `` O Brother , in former day wise man make effort in the place where effort should be make , and so attain unto royal power . '' and he tell a story of long ago . _ once upon a time , when Brahmadatta be King of Benares , the Bodhisatta be bear as son of he chief queen . on he name-day they ask 800 brahman , have satisfy they with all they desire , about he lucky mark . the BrahmansS who have skill in divine from such mark behold the excellence of he , and make answer : `` Full of goodness , great King , be you son , and when you die he will become king ; he shall be famous and renowned for he skill with the five weapon , and shall be the chief man in all India . '' on hear what the BrahmansS have to say , they give he the name of the Prince of the five Weapons , sword , spear , bow , battle-axe , and shield . when he come to year of discretion , and have attain the measure of sixteen year , the King say to he : `` my son , go and complete you education . '' `` who shall be my teacher ? '' the lad ask . `` go , my son ; in the kingdom of Candahar , in the city of Takkasila , be a far-famed teacher from whom I wish you to learn . take this , and give it he for a fee . '' with that he give he a thousand piece of money , and dismiss he . the lad depart , and be educate by this teacher ; he receive the five Weapons from he as a gift , bid he farewell , and leave Takkasila , he begin he journey to Benares , arm with the five Weapons . on he way he come to a forest inhabit by the demon with the Matted Hair . at the enter in of the forest some man see he , and cry out : `` Hullo , young sir , keep clear of that wood ! there be a demon in it call he of the Matted Hair : he kill every man he see ! '' and they try to stop he . but the Bodhisatta , have confidence in himself , go straight on , fearless as a maned lion . when he reach mid-forest the demon show himself . he make himself as tall as a palm tree ; he head be the size of a pagoda , he eye as big as saucer , and he have two tusk all over knob and bulb ; he have the face of a hawk , a variegated belly , and blue hand and foot . `` where be you go ? '' he shout . `` stop ! you 'll make a meal for I ! '' Said the Bodhisatta : `` demon , I come here trust in myself . I advise you to be careful how you come near I . here 's a poison arrow , which I 'll shoot at you and knock you down ! '' with this menace , he fit to he bow a arrow dip in deadly poison , and let fly . the arrow stick fast in the Demon 's hair . then he shoot and shoot , till he have shoot away fifty arrow ; and they all stick in the Demon 's hair . the demon snap they all off short , and throw they down at he foot ; then come up to the Bodhisatta , who draw he sword and strike the Demon , threaten he the while . he sword -- it be three-and-thirty inch long -- stick in the Demon 's hair ! the Bodhisatta strike he with he spear -- that stick too ! he strike he with he club -- and that stick too ! when the Bodhisatta see that this have stick fast , he address the demon . `` you , Demon ! '' say he , `` do you never hear of I before -- the Prince of the five Weapons ? when I come into the forest which you live in I do not trust to my bow and other weapon . this day will I pound you and grind you to powder ! '' thus do he declare he resolve , and with a shout he hit at the demon with he right hand . it stick fast in he hair ! he hit he with he left hand -- that stick too ! with he right foot he kick he -- that stick too ; then with he left -- and that stick too ! then he but at he with he head , cry , `` I 'll pound you to powder ! '' and he head stick fast like the rest . thus the Bodhisatta be five time snare , catch fast in five place , hang suspend : yet he feel no fear -- be not even nervous . Thought the Demon to himself : `` here be a lion of a man ! a noble man ! more than man be he ! here he be , catch by a demon like I ; yet he will not fear a bit . since I have ravage this road , I never see such a man . now , why be it that he do not fear ? '' he be powerless to eat the man , but ask he : `` why be it , young sir , that you be not frighten to death ? '' `` why should I fear , Demon ? '' reply he . `` in one life a man can die but once . besides , in my belly be a thunderbolt ; if you eat I , you will never be able to digest it ; this will tear you inward into little bit , and kill you : so we shall both perish . that be why I fear nothing . '' -lrb-B- by this , the Bodhisatta mean the weapon of knowledge which he have within he . -rrb-B- when he hear this , the Demon thought : `` this young man speak the truth . a piece of the flesh of such a lion-man as he would be too much for I to digest , if it be no bigger than a kidney-bean . I 'll let he go ! '' so , be frighten to death , he let go the Bodhisatta , say `` young sir , you be a lion of a man ! I will not eat you up . I set you free from my hand , as the moon be disgorge from the jaw of Rahu after the eclipse . go back to the company of you friend and relation ! '' and the Bodhisatta say : `` demon , I will go , as you say . you be bear a demon , cruel , blood-bibbing , devourer of the flesh and gore of other , because you do wickedly in former life . if you still go on do wickedly , you will go from darkness to darkness . but now that you have see I you will find it impossible to do wickedly . take the life of live creature cause birth , as a animal , in the world of Petas , or in the body of a Asura , or , if one be reborn as a man , it make he life short . '' with this and the like monition he tell he the disadvantage of the five kind of wickedness , and the profit of the five kind of virtue , and frighten the demon in various way , discourse to he until he subdue he and make he self-denying , and establish he in the five kind of virtue ; he make he worship the deity to whom offering be make in that wood ; and have carefully admonish he , depart out of it . at the entrance of the forest he tell all to the people thereabout ; and go on to Benares , arm with he five weapon . afterwards he become king , and rule righteously ; and after give alms and do good he pass away accord to he deed . _ and the teacher , when this tale be end , become perfectly enlighten , and repeat this verse : whose mind and heart from all desire be free , who seek for peace by live virtuously , he in due time will sever all the bond that bind he fast to life , and cease to be . thus the teacher reach the summit , through sainthood and the teaching of the law , and thereupon he declare the Four TruthsS . at the end of the declare of the TruthsS , this brother also attain to sainthood . then the teacher make the connexion , and give the key to the birth - tale , say : `` at that time Angulimala be the Demon , but the Prance of the five Weapons be I myself . '' _