123 the Old Woman in the Wood BrothersS Grimm A poor servant-girl be once travel with the family with which she be in service , through a great forest , and when they be in the midst of it , robber come out of the thicket , and murder all they find . all perish together except the girl , who have jump out of the carriage in a fright , and hide herself behind a tree . when the robber have go away with they booty , she come out and behold the great disaster . then she begin to weep bitterly , and say , `` what can a poor girl like I do now ? I do not know how to get out of the forest , no human be life in it , so I must certainly starve . '' she walk about and look for a road , but could find none . when it be evening she seat herself under a tree , give herself into God 's keep , and resolve to sit wait there and not go away , let what might happen . when , however , she have sit there for a while , a white dive come fly to she with a little golden key in its mouth . it put the little key in she hand , and say , `` dost thou see that great tree , therein be a little lock , it open with the tiny key , and there thou wilt find food enough , and suffer no more hunger . '' then she go to the tree and open it , and find milk in a little dish , and white bread to break into it , so that she could eat she fill . when she be satisfy , she say , `` it be now the time when the hen at home go to roost , I be so tired I could go to bed too . '' then the dive fly to she again , and bring another golden key in its bill , and say , `` open that tree there , and thou willt find a bed . '' so she open it , and find a beautiful white bed , and she pray God to protect she during the night , and lay down and sleep . in the morning the dive come for the third time , and again bring a little key , and say , `` open that tree there , and thou wilt find clothes . '' and when she open it , she find garment beset with gold and with jewel , more splendid than those of any king 's daughter . so she live there for some time , and the dive come every day and provide she with all she need , and it be a quiet good life . once , however , the dive come and say , `` wilt thou do something for my sake ? '' `` with all my heart , '' say the girl . then say the little dive , `` I will guide thee to a small house ; enter it , and inside it , a old woman will be sit by the fire and will say , ` good-day . ' but on thy life give she no answer , let she do what she will , but pass by she on the right side ; further on , there be a door , which open , and thou wilt enter into a room where a quantity of ring of all kind be lie , amongst which be some magnificent one with shine stone ; leave they , however , where they be , and seek out a plain one , which must likewise be amongst they , and bring it here to I as quickly as thou canst . '' the girl go to the little house , and come to the door . there sit a old woman who stare when she see she , and say , `` good-day my child . '' the girl give she no answer , and open the door . `` whither away , '' cry the old woman , and seize she by the gown , and want to hold she fast , say , `` that be my house ; no one can go in there if I choose not to allow it . '' but the girl be silent , get away from she , and go straight into the room . now there lay on the table a enormous quantity of ring , which gleam and glitter before she eye . she turn they over and look for the plain one , but could not find it . while she be seek , she see the old woman and how she be steal away , and want to get off with a bird-cage which she have in she hand . so she go after she and take the cage out of she hand , and when she raise it up and look into it , a bird be inside which have the plain ring in its bill . then she take the ring , and run quite joyously home with it , and think the little white dive would come and get the ring , but it do not . then she lean against a tree and determine to wait for the dive , and , as she thus stand , it seem just as if the tree be soft and pliant , and be let its branch down . and suddenly the branch twine around she , and be two arm , and when she look round , the tree be a handsome man , who embrace and kiss she heartily , and say , `` Thou hast deliver I from the power of the old woman , who be a wicked witch . she have change I into a tree , and every day for two hour I be a white dive , and so long as she possess the ring I could not regain my human form . '' then he servant and he horse , who have likewise be change into tree , be free from the enchantment also , and stand beside he . and he lead they forth to he kingdom , for he be a King 's son , and they marry , and live happily .