the girl who tread on the LOAF . H. C. Andersen the story of the girl who tread on the loaf , to avoid soil she shoe , and of the misfortune that befall this girl , be well know . it have be write , and even print . the girl 's name be Inge ; she be a poor child , but proud and presumptuous ; there be a bad foundation in she , as the say be . when she be quite a little child , it be she delight to catch fly , and tear off they wing , so as to convert they into creep thing . grow older , she would take cockchafer and beetle , and spit they on pin . then she push a green leaf or a little scrap of paper towards they foot , and the poor creature seize it , and hold it fast , and turn it over and over , struggle to get free from the pin . `` the cockchafer be read , '' Inge would say . `` see how he turn the leaf round and round ! '' with year she grow worse rather than better ; but she be pretty , and that be she misfortune ; otherwise she would have be more sharply reprove than she be . `` you headstrong will require something strong to break it ! '' she own mother often say . `` as a little child , you use to trample on my apron ; but I fear you will one day trample on my heart . '' and that be what she really do . she be send into the country , into service in the house of rich people , who keep she as they own child , and dress she in corresponding style . she look well , and she presumption increase . when she have be there about a year , she mistress say to she , `` you ought once to visit you parent , Inge . '' and Inge set out to visit she parent , but it be only to show herself in she native place , and that the people there might see how grand she have become ; but when she come to the entrance of the village , and the young husbandman and maid stand there chat , and she own mother appear among they , sit on a stone to rest , and with a faggot of stick before she that she have pick up in the wood , then Inge turn back , for she feel ashamed that she , who be so finely dress , should have for a mother a ragged woman , who pick up wood in the forest . she do not turn back out of pity for she mother 's poverty , she be only angry . and another half-year go by , and she mistress say again , `` you ought to go to you home , and visit you old parent , Inge . I 'll make you a present of a great wheaten loaf that you may give to they ; they will certainly be glad to see you again . '' and Inge put on she best clothes , and she new shoe , and draw she skirt around she , and set out , step very carefully , that she might be clean and neat about the foot ; and there be no harm in that . but when she come to the place where the footway lead across the moor , and where there be mud and puddle , she throw the loaf into the mud , and trod upon it to pass over without wet she foot . but as she stand there with one foot upon the loaf and the other uplifted to step farther , the loaf sink with she , deeper and deeper , till she disappear altogether , and only a great puddle , from which the bubble rise , remain where she have be . and that be the story . -lrb-B- Illustration : INGE turn BACK AT the sight of HER POOR MOTHER . aaaaa -rrb-B- aaa but whither do Inge go ? she sink into the moor ground , and go down to the moor woman , who be always brew there . the moor woman be cousin to the elf maiden , who be well enough know , of whom song be sing , and whose picture be paint ; but concern the moor woman it be only know that when the meadow steam in summer-time it be because she be brewing . Into the moor woman 's brewery do Inge sink down ; and no one can endure that place long . a box of mud be a palace compare with the moor woman 's brewery . every barrel there have a odour that almost take away one 's sens ; and the barrel stand close to each other ; and wherever there be a little opening among they , through which one might push one 's way , the passage become impracticable from the number of damp toad and fat snake who sit out they time there . among this company do Inge fall ; and all the horrible mass of live creep thing be so icy cold , that she shudder in all she limb , and become stark and stiff . she continue fasten to the loaf , and the loaf draw she down as a amber button draw a fragment of straw . the moor woman be at home , and on that day there be visitor in the brewery . these visitor be old Bogey and he grandmother , who come to inspect it ; and Bogey 's grandmother be a venomous old woman , who be never idle : she never ride out to pay a visit without take she work with she ; and , accordingly , she have bring it on the day in question . she sew biting-leather to be work into man 's shoe , and which make they wander about unable to settle anywhere . she weave web of lie , and string together hastily-spoken word that have fall to the ground ; and all this be do for the injury and ruin of mankind . yes , indeed , she know how to sew , to weave , and to string , this old grandmother ! catch sight of Inge , she put up she double eye-glass , and take another look at the girl . `` that be a girl who have ability ! '' she observe , `` and I beg you will give I the little one as a memento of my visit here . she 'll make a capital statue to stand in my grandson 's antechamber . '' and Inge be give up to she , and this be how Inge come into Bogey 's domain . people do not always go there by the direct path , but they can get there by roundabout route if they have a tendency in that direction . that be a never-ending antechamber . the visitor become giddy who look forward , and doubly giddy when he look back , and see a whole crowd of people , almost utterly exhaust , wait till the gate of mercy should be open to they -- they have to wait a long time ! great fat waddling spider spin web of a thousand year over they foot , and these web cut like wire , and bind they like bronze fetter ; and , moreover , there be a eternal unrest work in every heart -- a miserable unrest . the miser stand there , and have forget the key of he strong box , and he know the key be stick in the lock . it would take too long to describe the various sort of torture that be find there together . Inge feel a terrible pain while she have to stand there as a statue , for she be tie fast to the loaf . `` that be the fruit of wish to keep one 's foot neat and tidy , '' she say to herself . `` just look how they be all stare at I ! '' yes , certainly , the eye of all be fix upon she , and they evil thought gleam forth from they eye , and they speak to one another , move they lip , from which no sound whatever come forth : they be very horrible to behold . `` it must be a great pleasure to look at I ! '' thought Inge , `` and indeed I have a pretty face and fine clothes . '' and she turn she eye , for she could not turn she head ; she neck be too stiff for that . but she have not consider how she clothes have be soil in the moor woman 's brewhouse . she garment be cover with mud ; a snake have fasten in she hair , and dangle down she back ; and out of each fold of she frock a great toad look forth , croak like a asthmatic poodle . that be very disconcert . `` but all the rest of they down here look horrible , '' she observe to herself , and derive consolation from the thought . the worst of all be the terrible hunger that torment she . but could she not stoop and break off a piece of the loaf on which she stand ? no , she back be too stiff , she hand and arm be benumb , and she whole body be like a pillar of stone ; only she be able to turn she eye in she head , to turn they quite round so that she could see backwards : it be a ugly sight . and then the fly come up , and creep to and fro over she eye , and she blink she eye , but the fly would not go away , for they could not fly : they wing have be pull out , so that they be convert into creep insect : it be horrible torment add to the hunger , for she feel empty , quite , entirely empty . `` if this last much longer , '' she say , `` I shall not be able to bear it . '' but she have to bear it , and it last on and on . then a hot tear fall down upon she head , roll over she face and neck , down on to the loaf on which she stand ; and then another tear roll down , follow by many more . who might be weep for Inge ? have she not still a mother in the world ? the tear of sorrow which a mother weep for she child always make they way to the child ; but they do not relieve it , they only increase its torment . and now to bear this unendurable hunger , and yet not to be able to touch the loaf on which she stand ! she feel as if she have be feed on herself , and have become like a thin , hollow reed that take in every sound , for she hear everything that be say of she up in the world , and all that she hear be hard and evil . she mother , indeed , weep much and sorrowed for she , but for all that she say , `` a haughty spirit go before a fall . that be thy ruin , Inge . Thou hast sorely grieved thy mother . '' she mother and all on earth know of the sin she have commit ; know that she have trodden upon the loaf , and have sink and disappear ; for the cowherd have see it from the hill beside the moor . `` greatly hast thou grieve thy mother , Inge , '' say the mother ; `` yes , yes , I think it would be thus . '' `` oh that I never have be bear ! '' thought Inge ; `` it would have be far better . but what use be my mother 's weep now ? '' and she hear how she master and mistress , who have keep and cherish she like kind parent , now say she be a sinful child , and do not value the gift of God , but trample they under she foot , and that the gate of mercy would only open slowly to she . `` they should have punish I , '' think Inge , `` and have drive out the whim I have in my head . '' she hear how a complete song be make about she , a song of the proud girl who tread upon the loaf to keep she shoe clean , and she hear how the song be sing everywhere . `` that I should have to bear so much evil for this ! '' thought Inge ; `` the other ought to be punish , too , for they sin . Yes , then there would be plenty of punish to do . ah , how I be be tortured ! '' and she heart become harder than she outward form . `` here in this company one can not even become better , '' she say , `` and I do not want to become better ! look , how they be all stare at I ! '' and she heart be full of anger and malice against all man . `` now they have something to talk about at last up yonder . ah , how I be be tortured ! '' and then she hear how she story be tell to the little child , and the little one call she the godless Inge , and say she be so naughty and ugly that she must be well punish . thus , even the child 's mouth speak hard word of she . but one day , while grief and hunger gnaw she hollow frame , and she hear she name mention and she story tell to a innocent child , a little girl , she become aware that the little one burst into tear at the tale of the haughty , vain Inge . `` but will inge never come up here again ? '' ask the little girl . and the reply be , `` she will never come up again . '' `` but if she be to say she be sorry , and to beg pardon , and say she would never do so again ? '' `` yes , then she might come ; but she will not beg pardon , '' be the reply . `` I should be so glad if she would , '' say the little girl ; and she be quite inconsolable . `` I 'll give my doll and all my plaything if she may only come up . it be too dreadful -- poor inge ! '' and these word penetrate to Inge 's inmost heart , and seem to do she good . it be the first time any one have say , `` Poor Inge , '' without add anything about she fault : a little innocent child be weep and pray for mercy for she . it make she feel quite strangely , and she herself would gladly have weep , but she could not weep , and that be a torment in itself . while year be pass above she , for where she be there be no change , she hear herself speak of more and more seldom . at last , one day a sigh strike on she ear : `` Inge , Inge , how you have grieve I ! I say how it would be ! '' it be the last sigh of she die mother . occasionally she hear she name speak by she former employer , and they be pleasant word when the woman say , `` Shall I ever see thee again , Inge ? one know not what may happen . '' but Inge know right well that she good mistress would never come to the place where she be . and again time go on -- a long , bitter time . then Inge hear she name pronounce once more , and see two bright star that seem gleaming above she . they be two gentle eye close upon earth . so many year have go by since the little girl have be inconsolable and weep about `` poor inge , '' that the child have become a old woman , who be now to be call home to heaven ; and in the last hour of existence , when the event of the whole life stand at once before we , the old woman remember how as a child she have cry heartily at the story of Inge . and the eye of the old woman close , and the eye of she soul be open to look upon the hidden thing . she , in whose last thought Inge have be present so vividly , see how deeply the poor girl have sink , and burst into tear at the sight ; in heaven she stand like a child , and weep for poor Inge . and she tear and prayer sound like a echo in the dark empty space that surround the tormented captive soul , and the unhoped-for love from above conquer she , for a angel be weep for she . why be this vouchsafe to she ? the tormented soul seem to gather in she thought every deed she have do on earth , and she , Inge , tremble and weep such tear as she have never yet weep . she be fill with sorrow about herself : it seem as though the gate of mercy could never open to she ; and while in deep penitence she acknowledge this , a beam , of light shot radiantly down into the depths to she , with a greater force than that of the sunbeam which melt the snow man the boy have build up ; and quicker than the snow-flake melt , and become a drop of water that fall on the warm lip of a child , the stony form of Inge be change to mist , and a little bird soar with the speed of lightning upward into the world of man . but the bird be timid and shy towards all thing around ; he be ashamed of himself , ashamed to encounter any living thing , and hurriedly seek to conceal himself in a dark hole in a old crumble wall ; there he sit cower , tremble through he whole frame , and unable to utter a sound , for he have no voice . long he sit there , before he could rightly see all the beauty around he ; for it be beautiful . the air be fresh and mild , the moon cast its mild radiance over the earth ; tree and bush exhale fragrance , and it be right pleasant where he sit , and he coat of feather be clean and pure . how all creation seem to speak of beneficence and love ! the bird want to sing of the thought that stir in he breast , but he could not ; gladly would he have sing as the cuckoo and the nightingale sing in spring-time . but Heaven , that hear the mute song of praise of the worm , could hear the note of praise which now tremble in the breast of the bird , as David 's psalm be hear before they have fashion themselves into word and song . for week these toneless song stir within the bird ; at last , the holy christmas-time approach . the peasant who dwell near set up a pole by the old wall with , some ear of corn bind to the top , that the bird of heaven might have a good meal , and rejoice in the happy , bless time . and on Christmas morning the sun arise and shine upon the ear of corn , which be surround by a number of twitter bird . then out of the hole in the wall stream forth the voice of another bird , and the bird soar forth from its hiding-place ; and in heaven it be well know what bird this be . it be a hard winter . the pond be cover with ice , and the beast of the field and the bird of the air be stint for food . we little bird soar away over the high road , and in the rut of the sledge he find here and there a grain of corn , and at the halting-places some crumb . of these he eat only a few , but he call all the other hungry sparrow around he , that they , too , might have some food . he fly into the town , and look round about ; and wherever a kind hand have strew bread on the window-sill for the bird , he only eat a single crumb himself , and give all the rest to the other bird . in the course of the winter , the bird have collect so many bread crumb , and give they to the other bird , that they equal the weight of the loaf on which Inge have tread to keep she shoe clean ; and when the last bread crumb have be find and give , the gray wing of the bird become white , and spread far out . `` Yonder be a sea-swallow , fly away across the water , '' say the child when they see the white bird . now it dive into the sea , and now it rise again into the clear sunlight . it gleam white ; but no one could tell whither it go , though some assert that it fly straight into the sun .