the QUARREL of TEE MONKEY and the crab . Japanese Writer Long , long ago , one bright autumn day in Japan , it happen , that a pink-faced monkey and a yellow crab be play together along the bank of a river . as they be run about , the crab find a rice - dumpling and the monkey a persimmon-seed . the crab pick up the rice-dumpling and show it to the monkey , say : `` look what a nice thing I have find ! '' then the monkey hold up he persimmon-seed and say : `` I also have find something good ! look ! '' now though the monkey be always very fond of persimmon fruit , he have no use for the seed he have just find . the persimmon-seed be as hard and uneatable as a stone . he , therefore , in he greedy nature , feel very envious of the crab 's nice dumpling , and he propose a exchange . the crab naturally do not see why he should give up he prize for a hard stone-like seed , and would not consent to the monkey 's proposition . then the cunning monkey begin to persuade the crab , say : `` how unwise you be not to think of the future ! you rice-dumpling can be eat now , and be certainly much bigger than my seed ; but if you sow this seed in the ground it will soon grow and become a great tree in a few year , and bear a abundance of fine ripe persimmon year after year . if only I could show it to you then with the yellow fruit hanging on its branch ! of course , if you do not believe I I shall sow it myself ; though I be sure , later on , you will be very sorry that you do not take my advice . '' the simple-minded crab could not resist the monkey 's clever persuasion . he at last give in and consent to the monkey 's proposal , and the exchange be make . the greedy monkey soon gobble up the dumpling , and with great reluctance give up the persimmon - seed to the crab . he would have like to keep that too , but he be afraid of make the crab angry and of be pinch by he sharp scissor-like claw . they then separate , the monkey go home to he forest tree and the crab to he stone along the river-side . as soon as the crab reach home he put the persimmon-seed in the ground as the monkey have tell he . in the following spring the crab be delighted to see the shoot of a young tree push its way up through the ground . each year it grow bigger , till at last it blossom one spring , and in the following autumn bear some fine large persimmon . among the broad smooth green leave the fruit hang like golden ball , and as they ripen they mellow to a deep orange . it be the little crab 's pleasure to go out day by day and sit in the sun and put out he long eye in the same way as a snail put out its horn , and watch the persimmon ripen to perfection . `` how delicious they will be to eat ! '' he say to himself . at last , one day , he know the persimmon must be quite ripe and he want very much to taste one . he make several attempt to climb the tree , in the vain hope of reach one of the beautiful persimmon hang above he ; but he fail each time , for a crab 's leg be not make for climb tree but only for run along the ground and over stone , both of which he can do most cleverly . in he dilemma he think of he old playmate the monkey , who , he know , could climb tree better than any one else in the world . he determine to ask the monkey to help he , and set out to find he . run crab-fashion up the stony river bank , over the pathway into the shadowy forest , the crab at last find the monkey take a afternoon nap in he favorite pine-tree , with he tail curl tight around a branch to prevent he from fall off in he dream . he be soon wide awake , however , when he hear himself call , and eagerly listen to what the crab tell he . when he hear that the seed which he have long ago exchange for a rice-dumpling have grow into a tree and be now bear good fruit , he be delighted , for he at once devise a cunning plan which would give he all the persimmon for himself . he consent to go with the crab to pick the fruit for he . when they both reach the spot , the monkey be astonish to see what a fine tree have spring from the seed , and with what a number of ripe persimmon the branch be load . he quickly climb the tree and begin to pluck and eat , as fast as he could , one persimmon after another . each time he choose the best and ripest he could find , and go on eating till he could eat no more . not one would he give to the poor hungry crab wait below , and when he have finish there be little but the hard , unripe fruit leave . you can imagine the feeling of the poor crab after wait patiently , for so long as he have do , for the tree to grow and the fruit to ripen , when he see the monkey devour all the good persimmon . he be so disappointed that he run round and round the tree call to the monkey to remember he promise . the monkey at first take no notice of the crab 's complaint , but at last he pick out the hardest , greenest persimmon he could find and aim it at the crab 's head . the persimmon be as hard as stone when it be unripe . the monkey 's missile strike home and the crab be sorely hurt by the blow . again and again , as fast as he could pick they , the monkey pull off the hard persimmon and throw they at the defenseless crab till he drop dead , cover with wound all over he body . there he lay a pitiful sight at the foot of the tree he have himself plant . when the wicked monkey see that he have kill the crab he run away from the spot as fast as he could , in fear and tremble , like a coward as he be . now the crab have a son who have be play with a friend not far from the spot where this sad work have take place . on the way home he come across he father dead , in a most dreadful condition -- he head be smash and he shell break in several place , and around he body lay the unripe persimmon which have do they deadly work . at this dreadful sight the poor young crab sit down and weep . but when he have weep for some time he tell himself that this cry would do no good ; it be he duty to avenge he father 's murder , and this he determine to do . he look about for some clue which would lead he to discover the murderer . look up at the tree he notice that the best fruit have go , and that all around lay bit of peel and numerous seed strew on the ground as well as the unripe persimmon which have evidently be throw at he father . then he understand that the monkey be the murderer , for he now remember that he father have once tell he the story of the rice-dumpling and the persimmon-seed . the young crab know that monkey like persimmon above all other fruit , and he feel sure that he greed for the coveted fruit have be the cause of the old crab 's death . Alas ! he at first thought of go to attack the monkey at once , for he burn with rage . second thought , however , tell he that this be useless , for the monkey be a old and cunning animal and would be hard to overcome . he must meet cunning with cunning and ask some of he friend to help he , for he know it would be quite out of he power to kill he alone . the young crab set out at once to call on the mortar , he father 's old friend , and tell he of all that have happen . he beseech the mortar with tear to help he avenge he father 's death . the mortar be very sorry when he hear the woful tale and promise at once to help the young crab punish the monkey to death . he warn he that he must be very careful in what he do , for the monkey be a strong and cunning enemy . the mortar now send to fetch the bee and the chestnut -lrb-B- also the crab 's old friend -rrb-B- to consult they about the matter . in a short time the bee and the chestnut arrive . when they be tell all the detail of the old crab 's death and of the monkey 's wickedness and greed , they both gladly consent to help the young crab in he revenge . after talk for a long time as to the way and means of carry out they plan they separate , and Mr. Mortar go home with the young crab to help he bury he poor father . while all this be take place the monkey be congratulating himself -lrb-B- as the wicked often do before they punishment come upon they -rrb-B- on all he have do so neatly . he think it quite a fine thing that he have rob he friend of all he ripe persimmon and then that he have kill he . still , smile as hard as he might , he could not banish altogether the fear of the consequence should he evil deed be discover . if he be find out -lrb-B- and he tell himself that this could not be for he have escape unseen -rrb-B- the crab 's family would be sure to bear he hatred and seek to take revenge on he . so he would not go out , and keep himself at home for several day . he find this kind of life , however , extremely dull , accustomed as he be to the free life of the wood , and at last he say : `` no one know that it be I who kill the crab ! I be sure that the old thing breathe he last before I leave he . Dead crab have no mouth ! who be there to tell that I be the murderer ? since no one know , what be the use of shut myself up and brood over the matter ? what be do can not be undo ! '' with this he wander out into the crab settlement and creep about as slyly as possible near the crab 's house and try to hear the neighbor ' gossip round about . he want to find out what the crab be save about they chief 's death , for the old crab have be the chief of the tribe . but he hear nothing and say to himself : `` they be all such fool that they do not know and do not care who murder they chief ! '' Little do he know in he so-called `` monkey 's wisdom '' that this seeming unconcern be part of the young crab 's plan . he purposely pretend not to know who kill he father , and also to believe that he have meet he death through he own fault . by this mean he could the better keep secret the revenge on the monkey , which he be meditate . so the monkey return home from he walk quite content . he tell himself he have nothing now to fear . one fine day , when the monkey be sit at home , he be surprise by the appearance of a messenger from the young crab . while he be wonder what this might mean , the messenger bow before he and say : `` I have be send by my master to inform you that he father die the other day in fall from a persimmon tree while try to climb the tree after fruit . this , be the seventh day , be the first anniversary after he death , and my master have prepare a little festival in he father 's honor , and bid you come to participate in it as you be one of he best friend . my master hope you will honor he house with you kind visit . '' when the monkey hear these word he rejoice in he inmost heart , for all he fear of be suspect be now at rest . he could not guess that a plot have just be set in motion against he . he pretend to be very surprise at the news of the crab 's death , and say : `` I be , indeed , very sorry to hear of you chief 's death . we be great friend as you know . I remember that we once exchange a rice - dumple for a persimmon-seed . it grieve I much to think that that seed be in the end the cause of he death . I accept you kind invitation with many thanks . I shall be delighted to do honor to my poor old friend ! '' and he screw some false tear from he eye . the messenger laugh inwardly and think , `` the wicked monkey be now drop false tear , but within a short time he shall shed real one . '' but aloud he thank the monkey politely and go home . when he have go , the wicked monkey laugh aloud at what he think be the young crab 's innocence , and without the least feeling begin to look forward to the feast to be hold that day in honor of the dead crab , to which he have be invite . he change he dress and set out solemnly to visit the young crab . he find all the member of the crab 's family and he relative wait to receive and welcome he . as soon as the bow of meeting be over they lead he to a hall . here the young chief mourner come to receive he . expression of condolence and thanks be exchange between they , and then they all sit down to a luxurious feast and entertain the monkey as the guest of honor . the feast over , he be next invite to the tea-ceremony room to drink a cup of tea . when the young crab have conduct the monkey to the tearoom he leave he and retire . Time pass and still he do not return . at last the monkey become impatient . he say to himself : `` this tea ceremony be always a very slow affair . I be tire of wait so long . I be very thirsty after drink so much sake at the dinner ! '' he then approach the charcoal fire-place and begin to pour out some hot water from the kettle boil there , when something burst out from the ash with a great pop and hit the monkey right in the neck . it be the chestnut , one of the crab 's friend , who have hide himself in the fireplace . the monkey , take by surprise , jump backward , and then start to run out of the room . the bee , who be hide outside the screen , now fly out and sting he on the cheek . the monkey be in great pain , he neck be burn by the chestnut and he face badly sting by the bee , but he run on scream and chatter with rage . now the stone mortar have hide himself with several other stone on the top of the crab 's gate , and as the monkey run underneath , the mortar and all fall down on the top of the monkey 's head . be it possible for the monkey to bear the weight of the mortar fall on he from the top of the gate ? he lay crushed and in great pain , quite unable to get up . as he lay there helpless the young crab come up , and , hold he great claw scissors over the monkey , he say : `` do you now remember that you murder my father ? '' `` then you -- be -- my -- enemy ? '' gasp the monkey brokenly . `` of course , '' say the young crab . `` it -- be -- you -- father 's -- fault -- not -- mine ! '' gasp the unrepentant monkey . `` can you still lie ? I will soon put a end to you breath ! '' and with that he cut off the monkey 's head with he pitcher claw . thus the wicked monkey meet he well-merited punishment , and the young crab avenge he father 's death . this be the end of the story of the monkey , the crab , and the persimmon-seed .