91 the Gnome BrothersS Grimm there be once upon a time a rich king who have three daughter , who daily go to walk in the palace garden , and the King be a great lover of all kind of fine tree , but there be one for which he have such a affection , that if anyone gather a apple from it he wish he a hundred fathom underground . and when harvest time come , the apple on this tree be all as red as blood . the three daughter go every day beneath the tree , and look to see if the wind have not blow down a apple , but they never by any chance find one , and the tree be so load with they that it be almost breaking , and the branch hang down to the ground . then the King 's youngest child have a great desire for a apple , and say to she sister , `` we father love we far too much to wish we underground , it be my belief that he would only do that to people who be stranger . '' and while she be speak , the child pluck off quite a large apple , and run to she sister , say , `` just taste , my dear little sister , for never in my life have I taste anything so delightful . '' then the two other sister also eat some of the apple , whereupon all three sink deep down into the earth , where they could hear no cock crow . when mid-day come , the King wish to call they to come to dinner , but they be nowhere to be find . he seek they everywhere in the palace and garden , but could not find they . then he be much trouble , and make know to the whole land that whosoever bring he daughter back again should have one of they to wife . Hereupon so many young man go about the country in search , that there be no count they , for every one love the three child because they be so kind to all , and so fair of face . three young huntsman also go out , and when they have travel about for eight day , they arrive at a great castle , in which be beautiful apartment , and in one room a table be lay on which be delicate dish which be still so warm that they be smoking , but in the whole of the castle no human being be either to be see or hear . they wait there for half a day , and the food still remain warm and smoking , and at length they be so hungry that they sit down and eat , and agree with each other that they would stay and live in that castle , and that one of they , who should be choose by cast lot , should remain in the house , and the two other seek the King 's daughter . they cast lot , and the lot fall on the eldest ; so next day the two younger go out to seek , and the eldest have to stay home . at mid-day come a small , small mannikin and beg for a piece of bread , then the huntsman take the bread which he have find there , and cut a round off the loaf and be about to give it to he , but whilst he be give it to the mannikin , the latter let it fall , and ask the huntsman to be so good as to give he that piece again . the huntsman be about to do so and stoop , on which the mannikin take a stick , seize he by the hair , and give he a good beating . next day , the second stay at home , and he fare no better . when the two other return in the evening , the eldest say , `` well , how have you get on ? '' `` oh , very badly , '' say he , and then they lament they misfortune together , but they say nothing about it to the youngest , for they do not like he at all , and always call he Stupid Hans , because he do not exactly belong to the forest . on the third day , the youngest stay at home , and again the little mannikin come and beg for a piece of bread . when the youth give it to he , the elf let it fall as before , and ask he to be so good as to give he that piece again . then say Hans to the little mannikin , `` what ! canst thou not pick up that piece thyself ? if thou wilt not take as much trouble as that for thy daily bread , thou dost not deserve to have it . '' then the mannikin grow very angry and say he be to do it , but the huntsman would not , and take my dear mannikin , and give he a thorough beating . then the mannikin scream terribly , and cry , `` stop , stop , and let I go , and I will tell thee where the King 's daughter be . '' when Hans hear that , he leave off beat he and the mannikin tell he that he be a earth mannikin , and that there be more than a thousand like he , and that if he would go with he he would show he where the King 's daughter be . then he show he a deep well , but there be no water in it . and the elf say that he know well that the companion Hans have with he do not intend to deal honourably with he , therefore if he wish to deliver the King 's child , he must do it alone . the two other brother would also be very glad to recover the King 's daughter , but they do not want to have any trouble or danger . Hans be therefore to take a large basket , and he must seat himself in it with he hanger and a bell , and be let down . Below be three room , and in each of they be a princess , with a many-headed dragon , whose head she be to comb and trim , but he must cut they off . and have say all this , the elf vanish . when it be evening the two brother come and ask how he have get on , and he say , `` pretty well so far , '' and that he have see no one except at mid-day when a little mannikin have come and beg for a piece of bread , that he have give some to he , but that the mannikin have let it fall and have ask he to pick it up again ; but as he do not choose to do that , the elf have begin to lose he temper , and that he have do what he ought not , and have give the elf a beating , on which he have tell he where the King 's daughter be . then the two be so angry at this that they grow green and yellow . next morning they go to the well together , and draw lot who should first seat himself in the basket , and again the lot fall on the eldest , and he be to seat himself in it , and take the bell with he . then he say , `` if I ring , you must draw I up again immediately . '' when he have go down for a short distance , he ring , and they at once draw he up again . then the second seat himself in the basket , but he do just the same as the first , and then it be the turn of the youngest , but he let himself be lower quite to the bottom . when he have get out of the basket , he take he hanger , and go and stand outside the first door and listen , and hear the dragon snore quite loudly . he open the door slowly , and one of the princess be sit there , and have nine dragon 's head lie upon she lap , and be comb they . then he take he hanger and hew at they , and the nine fall off . the princess spring up , throw she arm round he neck , embrace and kiss he repeatedly , and take she stomacher , which be make of pure gold , and hang it round he neck . then he go to the second princess , who have a dragon with five head to comb , and deliver she also , and to the youngest , who have a dragon with four head , he go likewise . and they all rejoice , and embrace he and kiss he without stop . then he ring very loud , so that those above hear he , and he place the princess one after the other in the basket , and have they all draw up , but when it come to he own turn he remember the word of the elf , who have tell he that he comrade do not mean well by he . so he take a great stone which be lie there , and place it in the basket , and when it be about half way up , he false brother above cut the rope , so that the basket with the stone fall to the ground , and they think that he be dead , and run away with the three princess , make they promise to tell they father that it be they who have deliver they , and then they go to the King , and each demand a princess in marriage . in the meantime the youngest huntsman be wander about the three chamber in great trouble , fully expect to have to end he day there , when he see , hang on the wall , a flute ; then say he , `` why dost thou hang there , no one can be merry here ? '' he look at the dragon , head likewise and say , `` you too can not help I now . '' he walk backwards and forwards for such a long time that he make the surface of the ground quite smooth . but at last other thought come to he mind , and he take the flute from the wall , and play a few note on it , and suddenly a