the three gossip ' WAGER La Fontain AS o ` er they wine one day , three gossip sit , discourse various prank in pleasant chat , each have a loving friend , and two of these most clearly manage matter at they ease . say one , a princely husband I have get . a better in the world there be surely not ; with he I can adjust as humor fit , no need to rise at early dawn , like cit , to prove to he that two and three make four , or ask he leave to ope or shut the door . upon my word , reply another fair , if he be mine , I openly declare , to judge from what so pleasantly you say , I would make a present of he new-year 's day . for pleasure never give I full delight , unless a little pain the bliss invite . no doubt you husband move as he be lead ; thank heav ` n a different mortal claim my bed ; to take he in , great nicety we need ; but howsoe'er , at time I can succeed ; the satisfaction doubly then be feel : -- in fond emotion bosom freely melt . with neither of you , husband or gallant , would I exchange , though these so much you vaunt . on this , the third with candor interfer would ; she think that oft the god of love appear 'd , good husband playfully to fret and vex , sometimes to rally couple : then perplex ; but warmer as the conversation grow , she , anxious that each disputant might view Herself victorious , -lrb-B- or believe it so , -rrb-B- Exclaim 'd , if either of you wish to show who be in the right , with argument have do , and let we practice some new scheme of fun , to dupe we husband ; she who do not succeed Shall pay a forfeit ; all reply , `` agree . '' but then , continue she , we ought to take a oath , that we will full discov ` ry make , to one another of the various fact , without disguise even trifle act . and then , good upright Macae shall decide ; thus thing arrang 'd , the lady homeward ply . SHE , ` mong the three , who feel the most constraint Ador have a youth , contemporary paint , well make and handsome , but with beardless chin , which lead the pair a project to begin ; for yet no opportunity they would find , T ' enjoy they wish , save by stealth around ; most ardently she seek to be at ease , and 'twa agree the lucky thought to seize that like a chambermaid he should be dress would , and then proceed to execute the jest , attend upon the wily , wed pair , and offer service with modest air and downcast eye ; the husband on she leer would , and in she favor prepossess would appear 'd , in hope one day , to find those please charm resign 'd in secret to he longing arm . such pretty cheek and sparkling eye he think , have ne'er till then he roving fancy catch ; the girl be hir 'd , but seemingly with pain , since PRUDENCE ultimately might complain , that -lrb-B- maid and master both so very young -rrb-B- ` Twould not be wonderful if thing go wrong . AT first the husband inattention show 'd , and scarcely on the maid a look bestow would ; but presently he chang would he conduct quite , and present give , with promise not slight ; at length the servant feign would to lend a ear , and anxious seem would oblige to appear . the trap we cunning lover have lay , one eve this message bring the smile maid ; my lady , sir , be ill , and rest require , to sleep alone to-night she much desire . to grant the master 's wish the girl be lead , and they together hurry off to bed . the husband ` tween the sheet himself have plac 'd ; the nymph be in she petticoat , unlac 'd ; when suddenly appear would the wily wife , and promi 'd harmony be turn 'd to strife . be these you freak , cry she with mark would surprise ; you usual dish it seem then do not suffice ; you want , indeed , to have some nicer fare ? a little sooner , by the saint I swear , you would I a pretty trick , ` tis clear , have show , and doubtless , then , tit bit to keep be prone . this , howsoe'er , to get you be not design 'd , so elsewhere you may try what you can find . and as to you , miss Prettyface , you jade , good heav ` n ! to think a paltry servant maid should rival I ? I 'll beat you black and blue ! the bread I eat , indeed , must be for you ? but I know better , and indeed be clear , not one around will fancy I appear so void of charm , so fade , wither 'd , lose , that I should out of door at once be tost ; but I will manage matter : -- I design this girl no other bed shall have than mine ; then who so bold to touch she there will dare ? come , Miss , let 's to my room at once repair ; away -- you thing to-morrow you can seek ; if scandal ` twould spread around , I would wreak my vengeance instantly , and turn you out ; but I be lenient , and desire no rout ; perhaps you ruin may be sav 'd by care ; so night and day you company I 'll share ; no more my bosom then will feel dismay , for I shall see that you no frolick play . on this the tremble girl , o ` ercome with fear ; hold down she head and seem would to hide she tear ; pick would up she clothes and quickly steal away , as if afraid she mistress more might say ; and hop would to act the maid while Sol give light , but play at ease the fond gallant at night ; at once she fill would two place in the house , and think in both the husband she should chouse , who bless would he star that he would escap 'd so well , and sneak would alone to rest within he cell , while we gay , be ` rous pair advantage take , to play at will , and ev ` ry solace hook , Convinc would most thoroughly , once lover kiss 'd , that opportunity should n ` er be miss 'd . here end the trick we wily gossip play would ; but now let 's see the plot another lay . the second dame , whose husband be so meek , that only from she lip the truth he would seek , when seat with he ` neath a pear tree 's shade , Contriv have at ease and she arrangement make . the story I shall presently relate ; the butler , strong , well dress would , and full of prate : who often make the other servant trot , Stood near when madam hit upon she plot , to whom she say , I wish the fruit to taste ; on which the man prepar would with ev ` ry haste , to climb the tree , and off the produce shake ; but while above , the fellow give a look upon the ground below , and feign would he see the spouse and wife -- do more than kiss and paw : the servant rubb have he eye , as if in doubt , and cry : why truly , sir , if you be so stout , that you must revel ` mid you lady 's charm , Pray elsewhere take she to you longing arm , where you at ease may frolick hour or day , without my witness you loving way ; indeed , I be quite surprise at what I spy in publick , ` neath a tree such prank to try ! and , if you do not a servant 's presence heed , with decency howe'er you should proceed . what , still go on ? for shame , I say , for shame ! pray wait till by and by ; you be much to blame ; besides , the night be long enough you 'll find ; Heav ` n genial joy for privacy design would ; and why this place , when you have nice chamber get ? what , cry the lady , say this noisy sot ? he surely dream ; where can he learn these tale ? come down ; let 's see what ` ti the fellow ail . Down William come . how ? say the master , how ? be we at play ? William not now , sir , no , not now . husband why , when then , friend ? William while I be in the tree , Alive , sir , flay I , if I do not see you on the verdant lawn my lady lay , and kiss , and toy , and other frolick play . wife ` Twere surely better if thou hold ` st thy tongue , or thou ` lt a beating get before ` tis long . Husband No , no , my dear , he be mad , and I design the fellow in a madhouse to confine . William be ` t folly , pray , to see what we behold ? wife what hast thou see ? William what I have already tell : -- my master and yourself at Cupid 's game , or else the tree 's enchant I proclaim . wife enchanted ! nonsense ; such a sight to see ! husband to know the truth myself , I 'll climb the tree , then you the fact will quickly from I learn ; we may believe what we ourselves discern . soon as the master they above descry , and that below we pair he sharply eye , the butler take the lady in he arm , and grow at once familiar with she charm ; at sight of this the husband give a yell : Made haste to reach the ground , and nearly fall ; such liberty he wish 'd at once to stop , since what he would see have nearly make he drop . how ! how ! -- cry he : -- what , e ` en before my sight ? what can you mean ? say she without affright . husband DAR ` ST thou to ask again ? wife and why not , pray ? Husband FINE , pretty doing ! -- presently you 'll say ; that what I have see ` ti folly to believe . Wife too much be this : -- such accusation grieve . Husband Thou do ` st most clearly suffer he embrace . wife I ? why , you dream ! Husband this seem a curious case . MY reason 's fly ' ! or have I lose my eye ? wife CAN you suppose my character i prize so very little , that these prank I would play before you face , when I might ev ` ry day find minute to divert myself at will , and -lrb-B- if lik would such frolick -rrb-B- take my fill ? husband I know not what to think nor what to do ; P ` rhap this same tree can trick at will pursue ; let 's see again ; aloft he go once more , and William act as he would do before ; but now the husband see the playful squeeze ; without emotion , and return at ease . to find the cause , say he , no longer try , the tree 's enchant , we may well rely . SINCE , that be the fact , reply the cunning jade ; to burn it , quickly William seek fort aid ; the tree accurst no longer shall remain ; she will the servant wish would not to restrain , but soon some workman bring , who fell the tree ; and wonder what the fault we fair could see . Down hew it , cry the lady , that be you task ; more concern you not ; folly ` ti to ask . OUR second gossip thus obtain success ; but now the third : we 'll see if she have less : to female friend she often visit pay , and various pastime there have daily play would ; a leer lover who be weary grow , desire one night she would meet he quite alone . two , if you will , reply the smile fair ; a trifle ` ti you ask , and I 'll repair Where'er you wish , and we 'll recline at ease ; my husband I can manage , if I please , while thus engag would . -- the party soon agree ; but still the lady for she wit have need , since she dear man from home but rarely go , no pardon seek at Rome , but be content with what he nearer get , while he sweet wife more fondness mark would for gratify life , and ever anxious , warmest zeal to show , be always wish distant scene to know ; as pilgrim oft she would tread a foreign road , but now desir would those ancient way t ` explode ; a plan more rare and difficult she seek , and round she toe we wily dame bethought , to tie a pack-thread , fasten would to the door , which open have to the street : then feign would to snore Beside she husband , Harry Berlinguier , -lrb-B- so , usually , they nam would she wed dear . -rrb-B- HOWE ` ER , so cunningly with he she deal , that Harry turn 'd , and soon the pack-thread feel , which rai 'd distrust , and lead he to suspect some bad design the thread be mean t ` effect . a little time , as if asleep , he lay consider how to act , or what to say ; then rise , -lrb-B- he spouse believe not awake , -rrb-B- and softly tread , lest the room should shake ; the pack-thread follow would to the outer door , and thence conclude -lrb-B- what he might deplore , -rrb-B- that he dear partner from she faith would stray , and some gallant that night design would to play the lover 's part and draw the secret clue , when she would rise , and with he freak pursue , while he -lrb-B- good husband ! -rrb-B- quietly in bed Might sleep , not dream that he wife have flee . for otherwise , what use such pain to take ? a visit cuckoldom , perhaps , might make ; a honor that he would willingly decline ; on which he study how to countermine ; and like a sentinel mov would to and fro ' , to watch if any one would thither go to pull the string , that he could see with ease , and then he would instantly the culprit seize . the reader will perceive , we may suppose , besides the entrance which the husband choose , on t ` other side a door , where we gallant could enter readily , as he might want , and there the spark a chambermaid let in : -- Oft servant prone be find a bribe to win . WHILE Berlinguier thus watch would around and round ; the friend with one another pleasure find ; but heav ` n alone know how nor what they be : -- no fact transpir would save all be free from care ; so well the servant keep the careful watch , that not a chance be give the pair to catch : the spark at dawn the lady leave alone , and ere the husband come the bird be fly ; then Harry , weary , take he place again , Complaining , that he would feel such rack pain , and dread , lest alarm she breast should seize , within another room he have seek for ease . two day have pass 'd , when madam think once more , to set the thread , as she have do before ; he leave the bed , pretend he be sick , resume he post ; again the lover come , and , with my lady , play have the former game . the scheme so well succeed , that the pair thrice wish would to try the wily pack-thread snare ; the husband with the cholic mov would away , he place the bold gallant resum have till day . AT length they ardor ` gan , it seem , to cool , and Harry , they no longer try to fool ; 'Twas time to seek the myst ` ry of the plot , since , to three act , the comedy be get . AT midnight , when the spark have leave the bed ; a servant , by he order , draw the thread ; on whom the husband , without fear , lay hold , and with he enter would like a soldier bold , not then suppose he have a valet seiz would ; Well tim would it prov 'd , howe'er ; -- the lady plea would she voice to raise , on hear what be say , and through the house confusion quickly spread . the valet now before they bent the knee , and openly declar 'd , he come to see the chambermaid , whom he be wont to greet , and by the thread to rouse when time to meet : be these you knavish trick , reply the dame , with eye upon she maid that darted flame ; when I by chance observ have about you toe , a thread one night , I then resolv would to know you scheme in full , and round my own I tie a clue , on which I thoroughly rely , to catch this gay gallant , that you pretend you husband will become , I apprehend . be that as ` twill , to-night from hence you go . My dear , say Berlinguier , I would fain say no ; let thing remain until to-morrow , pray and then my lady presently give way . a fortune Harry on the girl bestow would ; the like we valet to he master ow would ; to church the happy couple smile go : -- they would know each other long , and be content . thus end then , the third and last amour ; the trio hasten 'd Macae to implore , to say which gain have the bet , who soon reply : -- I find it , friend , not easy to decide . the case hang up , and there will long remain ; ` tis often thus when justice we would obtain :