the roly-poly pudding Beatrix Potter once upon a time there be a old cat , call Mrs. Tabitha Twitchit , who be a anxious parent . she use to lose she kitten continually , and whenever they be lose they be always in mischief ! on bake day she determine to shut they up in a cupboard . she catch Moppet and Mittens , but she could not find Tom . Mrs. Tabitha go up and down all over the house , mew for Tom Kitten . she look in the pantry under the staircase , and she search the best spare bedroom that be all cover up with dust sheet . she go right upstairs and look into the attic , but she could not find he anywhere . it be a old , old house , full of cupboard and passage . some of the wall be four foot thick , and there use to be queer noise inside they , as if there might be a little secret staircase . certainly there be odd little jagged doorway in the wainscot , and thing disappear at night -- especially cheese and bacon . Mrs. Tabitha become more and more distract , and mew dreadfully . while they mother be search the house , Moppet and Mittens have get into mischief . the cupboard door be not lock , so they push it open and come out . they go straight to the dough which be set to rise in a pan before the fire . they pat it with they little soft paw -- `` Shall we make dear little muffin ? '' say Mittens to Moppet . but just at that moment somebody knock at the front door , and Moppet jump into the flour barrel in a fright . Mittens run away to the dairy , and hide in a empty jar on the stone shelf where the milk pan stand . the visitor be a neighbor , Mrs. Ribby ; she have call to borrow some yeast . Mrs. Tabitha come downstairs mew dreadfully -- `` come in , Cousin Ribby , come in , and sit ye down ! I be in sad trouble , Cousin Ribby , '' say Tabitha , shed tear . `` I have lose my dear son Thomas ; I be afraid the rat have get he . '' she wipe she eye with a apron . `` he be a bad kitten , Cousin Tabitha ; he make a cat 's cradle of my best bonnet last time I come to tea . where have you look for he ? '' `` all over the house ! the rat be too many for I . what a thing it be to have a unruly family ! '' say Mrs. Tabitha Twitchit . `` I be not afraid of rat ; I will help you to find he ; and whip he too ! what be all that soot in the fender ? '' `` the chimney want sweeping -- oh , dear I , Cousin Ribby -- now Moppet and Mittens be go ! '' `` they have both get out of the cup - board ! '' Ribby and Tabitha set to work to search the house thoroughly again . they poke under the bed with Ribby 's umbrella , and they rummage in cupboard . they even fetch a candle , and look inside a clothes chest in one of the attic . they could not find anything , but once they hear a door bang and somebody scutter downstairs . `` yes , it be infested with rat , '' say Tabitha tearfully , `` I catch seven young one out of one hole in the back kitchen , and we have they for dinner last Saturday . and once I see the old father rat -- a enormous old rat , Cousin Ribby . I be just go to jump upon he , when he show he yellow tooth at I and whisk down the hole . '' `` the rat get upon my nerve , Cousin Ribby , '' say Tabitha . Ribby and Tabitha search and search . they both hear a curious roly-poly noise under the attic floor . but there be nothing to be see . they return to the kitchen . `` here 's one of you kitten at least , '' say Ribby , drag Moppet out of the flour barrel . they shake the flour off she and set she down on the kitchen floor . she seem to be in a terrible fright . `` oh ! Mother , Mother , '' say Moppet , `` there be be a old woman rat in the kitchen , and she be steal some of the dough ! '' the two cat run to look at the dough pan . sure enough there be mark of little scratch finger , and a lump of dough be go ! `` which way do she go , Moppet ? '' but Moppet have be too much frightened to peep out of the barrel again . Ribby and Tabitha take she with they to keep she safely in sight , while they go on with they search . they go into the dairy . the first thing they find be Mittens , hide in a empty jar . they tip up the jar , and she scramble out . `` oh , Mother , Mother ! '' say Mittens -- `` oh ! Mother , Mother , there have be a old man rat in the dairy -- a dreadful ` normous big rat , Mother ; and he be steal a pat of butter and the rolling-pin . '' Ribby and Tabitha look at one another . `` a rolling-pin and butter ! oh , my poor son Thomas ! '' exclaimed Tabitha , wring she paw . `` a rolling-pin ? '' say Ribby . `` do we not hear a roly-poly noise in the attic when we be look into that chest ? '' Ribby and Tabitha rush upstairs again . sure enough the roly-poly noise be still go on quite distinctly under the attic floor . `` this be serious , Cousin Tabitha , '' say Ribby . `` we must send for John Joiner at once , with a saw . '' now this be what have be happen to Tom Kitten , and it show how very unwise it be to go up a chimney in a very old house , where a person do not know he way , and where there be enormous rat . Tom Kitten do not want to be shut up in a cupboard . when he see that he mother be go to bake , he determine to hide . he look about for a nice convenient place , and he fix upon the chimney . the fire have only just be light , and it be not hot ; but there be a white choky smoke from the green stick . Tom Kitten get upon the fender and look up . it be a big old-fashioned fireplace . the chimney itself be wide enough inside for a man to stand up and walk about . so there be plenty of room for a little Tom Cat . he jump right up into the fireplace , balance himself upon the iron bar where the kettle hang . Tom Kitten take another big jump off the bar , and land on a ledge high up inside the chimney , knock down some soot into the fender . Tom Kitten cough and choke with the smoke ; he could hear the stick begin to crackle and burn in the fireplace down below . he make up he mind to climb right to the top , and get out on the slate , and try to catch sparrow . `` I can not go back . if I slip I might fall in the fire and singe my beautiful tail and my little blue jacket . '' the chimney be a very big old-fashioned one . it be build in the day when people burnt log of wood upon the hearth . the chimney stack stand up above the roof like a little stone tower , and the daylight shone down from the top , under the slanting slate that keep out the rain . Tom Kitten be get very frightened ! he climb up , and up , and up . then he wade sideways through inch of soot . he be like a little sweep himself . it be most confusing in the dark . one flue seem to lead into another . there be less smoke , but Tom Kitten feel quite lose . he scramble up and up ; but before he reach the chimney top he come to a place where somebody have loosen a stone in the wall . there be some mutton bone lie about -- `` this seem funny , '' say Tom Kitten . `` who have be gnawing bone up here in the chimney ? I wish I have never come ! and what a funny smell ! it be something like mouse ; only dreadfully strong . it make I sneeze , '' say Tom Kitten . he squeeze through the hole in the wall , and drag himself along a most uncomfortably tight passage where there be scarcely any light . he grope he way carefully for several yard ; he be at the back of the skirt - board in the attic , where there be a little mark \* in the picture . all at once he fall head over heel in the dark , down a hole , and land on a heap of very dirty rag . when Tom Kitten pick himself up and look about he -- he find himself in a place that he have never see before , although he have live all he life in the house . it be a very small stuffy fusty room , with board , and rafter , and cobweb , and lath and plaster . opposite to he -- as far away as he could sit -- be a enormous rat . `` what do you mean by tumble into my bed all cover with smut ? '' say the rat , chatter he tooth . `` please sir , the chimney want sweeping , '' say poor Tom Kitten . `` Anna Maria ! Anna Maria ! '' squeak the rat . there be a pattering noise and a old woman rat poke she head round a rafter . all in a minute she rush upon Tom Kitten , and before he know what be happen -- he coat be pull off , and he be roll up in a bundle , and tie with string in very hard knot . Anna Maria do the tie . the old rat watch she and take snuff . when she have finish , they both sit stare at he with they mouth open . `` Anna Maria , '' say the old man rat -lrb-B- whose name be Samuel Whiskers -rrb-B- , -- `` Anna Maria , make I a kitten dumple roly-poly pudding for my dinner . '' `` it require dough and a pat of butter , and a rolling-pin , '' say Anna Maria , consider Tom Kitten with she head on one side . `` no , '' say Samuel Whiskers , `` make it properly , Anna Maria , with breadcrumb . '' `` nonsense ! butter and dough , '' reply Anna Maria . the two rat consult together for a few minute and then go away . Samuel Whiskers get through a hole in the wainscot , and go boldly down the front staircase to the dairy to get the butter . he do not meet anybody . he make a second journey for the rolling - pin . he push it in front of he with he paw , like a brewer 's man trundle a barrel . he could hear Ribby and Tabitha talk , but they be busy light the candle to look into the chest . they do not see he . Anna Maria go down by way of the skirting-board and a window shutter to the kitchen to steal the dough . she borrow a small saucer , and scoop up the dough with she paw . she do not observe Moppet . while Tom Kitten be leave alone under the floor of the attic , he wriggle about and try to mew for help . but he mouth be full of soot and cob - web , and he be tie up in such very tight knot , he could not make anybody hear he . except a spider , which come out of a crack in the ceiling and examine the knot critically , from a safe distance . it be a judge of knot because it have a habit of tie up unfortunate blue-bottles . it do not offer to assist he . Tom Kitten wriggle and squirm until he be quite exhaust . presently the rat come back and set to work to make he into a dumpling . first they smear he with butter , and then they roll he in the dough . `` will not the string be very indigestible , Anna Maria ? '' inquire Samuel Whiskers . Anna Maria say she think that it be of no consequence ; but she wish that Tom Kitten would hold he head still , as it disarrange the pastry . she lay hold of he ear . Tom Kitten bit and spat , and mew and wriggle ; and the rolling-pin go roly - poly , roly ; roly , poly , roly . the rat each hold a end . `` he tail be stick out ! you do not fetch enough dough , Anna Maria . '' `` I fetch as much as I could carry , '' reply Anna Maria . `` I do not think '' -- say Samuel Whiskers , pause to take a look at Tom Kitten -- `` I do not think it will be a good pudding . it smell sooty . '' Anna Maria be about to argue the point , when all at once there begin to be other sound up above -- the rasp noise of a saw ; and the noise of a little dog , scratch and yelp ! the rat drop the rolling-pin , and listen attentively . `` we be discover and interrupt , Anna Maria ; let we collect we property , -- and other people 's , -- and depart at once . '' `` I fear that we shall be oblige to leave this pudding . '' `` but I be persuade that the knot would have prove indigestible , whatever you may urge to the contrary . '' `` come away at once and help I to tie up some mutton bone in a counterpane , '' say Anna Maria . `` I have get half a smoked ham hide in the chimney . '' so it happen that by the time John Joiner have get the plank up -- there be nobody under the floor except the rolling-pin and Tom Kitten in a very dirty dumpling ! but there be a strong smell of rat ; and John Joiner spend the rest of the morning sniff and whine , and wag he tail , and go round and round with he head in the hole like a gimlet . then he nail the plank down again , and put he tool in he bag , and come downstairs . the cat family have quite recover . they invite he to stay to dinner . the dumpling have be peel off Tom Kitten , and make separately into a bag pudding , with currant in it to hide the smut . they have be oblige to put Tom Kitten into a hot bath to get the butter off . John Joiner smell the pudding ; but he regret that he have not time to stay to dinner , because he have just finish make a wheel-barrow for Miss Potter , and she have order two hen-coops . and when I be go to the post late in the afternoon -- I look up the lane from the corner , and I see Mr. Samuel WhiskersS and he wife on the run , with big bundle on a little wheel-barrow , which look very like mine . they be just turn in at the gate to the barn of Farmer Potatoes . Samuel Whiskers be puff and out of breath . Anna Maria be still argue in shrill tone . she seem to know she way , and she seem to have a quantity of luggage . I be sure _ I _ never give she leave to borrow my wheel-barrow ! they go into the barn , and haul they parcel with a bit of string to the top of the haymow . after that , there be no more rat for a long time at Tabitha Twitchit 's . as for Farmer Potatoes , he have be drive nearly distract . there be rat , and rat , and rat in he barn ! they eat up the chicken food , and steal the oats and bran , and make hole in the meal bag . and they be all descend from Mr. and Mrs. Samuel WhiskersS -- child and grand-children and great great grand-children . there be no end to they ! Moppet and Mittens have grow up into very good rat-catchers . they go out rat-catching in the village , and they find plenty of employment . they charge so much a dozen , and earn they living very comfortably . they hang up the rat ' tail in a row or the barn door , to show how many they have catch -- dozen and dozen of they . but Tom Kitten have always be afraid of a rat ; he never dare face anything that be bigger than -- A Mouse . the end