the DEVIL of POPE-FIG ISLAND La Fontain BY master Francis clearly ` tis express : the folk of Papimania be bless ; true sleep for they alone it seem be make with US the copy only have be lay ; and by Saint John , if Heav ` n my life will spare , I 'll see this place where sleeping 's free from care . E ` en better still I find , for naught they do : ` ti that employment always I pursue . just add thereto a little honest love , and I shall be as easy as a glove . on t ` other hand a island may be see , where all be hate , curse , and full of spleen . we know they by the thinness of they face long sleep be quite exclude from they race . should you , good reader , any person meet , with rosy , smile look , and cheek replete , the form not clumsy , you may safely say , a papimanian doubtless I survey . but if , on t ` other side , you chance to view , a meager figure , void of bloom hue , with stupid , heavy eye , and gloomy mien conclude at once a pope-figir , you have see . POPE-FIG be the name upon a isle bestow , where once a fig the silly people show , as like the pope , and due devotion pay : -- by folly , block have often god be make ! these islander be punish for they crime ; Naught prosper , Francis tell we , in they clime ; to Lucifer be giv ` n the hateful spot , and there he country house he now have get . he underling appear throughout the isle , Rude , wretch , poor , mean , sordid , base , and vile ; with tale , and horn , and claw , if we believe , what many say who ought not to deceive . one day it happen that a cunning clown be by a imp observe , without the town , to turn the earth , which seem to be accurst , since ev ` ry trench be painful as the first . this youthful devil be a title lord ; in manners simple : -- naught to be abhor ; he might , so ignorant , be dupe at ease ; as yet he would scarcely venture to displease : Said he , I would have thee know , I be not bear , like clod to labor , dig nor sow the corn ; a devil thou in I beholdest here , of noble race : to toil I ne'er appear . thou know ` st full well , these field to we belong : the islander , it seem , have act wrong ; and , for they crime , the pope withdraw he care ; we subject now you live , the law declare ; and therefore , fellow , I have undoubt right , to take the produce of this field , at sight ; but I be kind , and clearly will decide the year conclude , we 'll the fruit divide . what crop , pray tell I , dost thou mean to sow ? the clod reply , my lord , what best will grow I think be Tousell ; grain of hardy fame ; the imp rejoin , I never hear its name ; what be it . Tousell , say ` st thou ? -- I agree , if good return , ` twill be the same to I ; work fellow , work ; make haste , the ground prepare ; to dig and delve should be the rabble 's care ; do not think that I will ever lend a hand , or give the slightest aid to till the land ; I have tell thee I be a gentleman by birth , design for ease : not doom to turn the earth . howe'er I 'll now the diff ` rent part allot , and thus divide the produce of the plot : -- what shall above the heritage arise , I 'll leave to thee ; ` twill very well suffice ; but what be in the soil shall be my share ; to this attend , see ev ` ry thing be fair . THIS beardless corn when ripe , with joy be reap , and then the stubble by the root be heap , to satisfy the lordly devil 's claim , who think the seed and root be just the same , and that the ear and stalk be useless part , which nothing make if carry to the mart : the labourer he produce house with care ; the other to the market bring he ware , where ridicule and laughter he receive ; 'Twas nothing worth , which much he bosom grieve . QUITE mortify , the devil quickly go ; to seek we clod , and mark he discontent : the fellow have discreetly sell the corn , in straw , unthrashed , and off the money bear , which he , with ev ` ry wily care , conceal ; the imp be dupe , and nothing be reveal . Said he , thou rascal ? -- pretty trick thou ` st play ; it seem that cheating be thy daily trade ; but I be a noble devil of the court , who trick never know , save by report . what grain dost mean to sow th ' ensue year ? the labourer reply , I think it clear , instead of grain , ` twill better be to chop , and take a carrot , or a turnip crop ; you then , my lord , will surely plenty find ; and radish , if you be so inclined . THESE carrot , radish , and turnip too , Said t ` other , I be lead to think will do ; my part shall be what ` bove the soil be find : Thine , fellow , what remain within the ground ; no war with thee I 'll have , unless constrain , and thou hast never yet of I complain . I now shall go and try to tempt a nun , for I be disposed to have a little fun . the time arrive again to house the store ; the labourer collect as before ; leave solely to he lordship be assign , who seek for those a ready sale to find , but through the market ridicule be hear , and ev ` ry one around he jest prefer : -- Pray , Mister Devil , where d'ye grow these green ? how treasure up return from you demesne ? enraged at what be say , he hurry back , and , on the clown , propose to make attack , who , full of joy , be laugh with he wife , and tasting pleasantly the sweet of life . by all the pow ` r of Hell , the demon cry , he shall the forfeit pay , I now decide ; a pretty rascal truly , master Phil : here , pleasure you expect at will , well , well , proceed ; gallant it while allow ; for present I 'll remit what I have vow ; a charming lady I be engage to meet ; she be sometimes willing : then again discreet ; but soon as I , in cuckold 's row , have place she ninny husband , I 'll return in haste , and then so thoroughly I 'll trim you o ` er , such wily trick you 'll never practice more ; we 'll see who best can use he claw and nail , and from the field obtain the richest sale . corn , carrot , radish , or what you will : -- Crop as you like , and show you utmost skill no stratagem howe'er with culture blend ; I 'll take my portion from the better end ; within a week , remember , I 'll be here , and recollect : -- you have every thing to fear . amaze at what the lordly devil say , the clod could naught reply , so great he dread ; but at the gasconade Perretta smile , who keep he house and weary hour beguile , a sprightly clever lass , with prying eye , who , when a shepherdess , could more descry , than sheep or lamb she watch upon the plain , if other view or point she seek to gain . Said she , weep not , I 'll undertake at ease , to gull this novice-devil as I please ; he be young and ignorant ; have nothing see ; Thee ; from he rage , I thoroughly will skreen ; my little finger , if I like can show more malice than he head and body know . the day arrive , we labourer , not brave , conceal himself , but not in vault nor cave ; he plunge within a vase extremely large , where holy-water always be in charge ; no demon would have think to find he there , so well the clod have choose he repair ; in sacred stole he muffle up he skin , and , ` bove the water , only keep he chin ; there we will leave he , while the priest profound Repeated Vade retro round and round . PERRETTA at the house remain to greet the lordly devil whom she hope to cheat . he soon appear ; when with dishevelled hair , and flow tear , as if o ` erwhelm with care , she sally forth , and bitterly complain , how oft by Phil she have be scratch and cane ; Said she , the wretch have use I very ill ; of cruelty he have obtain he fill ; for God 's sake try , my lord , to get away : just now I hear the savage fellow say , he would with he claw you lordship tear and slash : See , only see , my lord , he make this gash ; on which she show : -- what you will guess , no doubt , and put the demon presently to rout , who cross himself and tremble with affright : he would never see nor hear of such a sight , where scratch from claw or nail have so appear ; he fear prevail , and off he quickly steer ; Perretta leave , who , by she friend around , be compliment on she sense profound , that could so well the demon 's snare defeat ; the clergy too pronounce she plan discrete .