the progress of WIT La Fontain DIVERTING in extreme there be a play , which oft resume its fascinating sway ; delight the sex , or ugly , fair , or sour ; by night or day : -- ` tis sweet at any hour . the frolick , ev ` ry where be know to fame ; Conjecture if you can , and tell its name . this play 's chief charm to husband be unknown ; ` Tis with the lover it excel alone ; no lookers-on , as umpire , be require ; no quarrel rise , though each appear inspired ; all seem delighted with the please game : -- conjecture if you can , and tell its name . be this as ` twill , and call whate'er it may ; no longer trifle with it I shall stay , but now disclose a method to transmit -lrb-B- as oft we find -rrb-B- to ninny sense and wit . till Alice get instruction in this school , she be regard as a silly fool , she exercise appear to spin and sew : -- not hers indeed , the hand alone would go ; for sense or wit have in it no concern ; Whate'er the foolish girl have get to learn , no part therein could ever take the mind ; she doll , for thought , be just as well design . the mother would , a hundred time a day , Abuse the stupid maid , and to she say Go wretch lump and try some wit to gain . the girl , quite overcome with shame and pain ; she neighbor ask to point she out the spot , where useful wit by purchase might be get . the simple question laughter raise around ; at length they tell she , that it might be find with father Bonadventure , who have a stock , which he at time dispose of to he flock . away in haste she to the cloister go , to see the friar she be quite intent , though tremble lest she might disturb he ease ; and one of he high character displease . the girl exclaim , as on she move , -- will he such present willingly bestow on I , Whose age , as yet , have scarcely reach fifteen ? with such can I be worthy to be see ? she innocence much add to she charm , the gentle wily god of soft alarm have not a youthful maiden in he book , that carry more temptation in she look . most rev ` rend sir , say she , by friend I be tell , that in this convent wit be often sell , Will you allow I some on trust to take ? my treasure will not afford that much I stake ; I can return if more I should require ; Howe'er , you 'll take this pledge I much desire ; on which she try to give the monk a ring , that to she finger firmly seem to cling . BUT when the friar see the girl 's design , he cry , good maid , the pledge we will decline , and what be wish , provide for you the same ; ` Tis merchandize , and whatsoe'er its fame , to some ` ti freely giv ` n : -- to other teach if not too dear , oft better when ` tis buy . come in and boldly follow where I lead ; none round can see : you have nothing here to heed ; they be all at prayer ; the porter 's at my will ; the very wall , of prudence have they fill . SHE enter as the holy monk desire , and they together to he cell retire . the friar on the bed this maiden throw ; a kiss would take : -- she from he rather draw ; and say . -- to give one wit be this the way ? Yes , answer he , and round she ` gan to play : upon she bosom then he put he hand what now , say she , be I to understand ? be this the way ? -- say he , ` tis so decree ; then patiently she let the monk proceed , who follow up , from point to point , he aim ; and wit , by easy step , advance come , till its progression with she be complete ; then Alice laugh , success appear so sweet . a second dose the friar soon bestow , and e ` en a third , so fast he bounty flow . well , say the monk , pray how d'ye find the play ? the girl reply : wit will not long delay ; ` twill soon arrive ; but then I fear its flight : I be half afraid ` twill leave I ere ` tis night . we 'll see , rejoin the priest , that naught you lose ; but other secret oftentime we use . seek not those the smile girl reply with this most perfectly I be satisfied ; then be it so , say he , we 'll recommence , nor longer keep the business in suspense , but to the utmost length at once advance ; for this fair Alice show much complaisance : the secret by the friar be renew ; much pleasure in it bonadventure view ; the belle a courtesy dropt , and then retire , reflect on the wit she have acquire ; reflect , do you say ? -- to think inclined ? Yes , even more : -- she seek excuse to find , not doubt that she should be force to say , some cause for keep she so long away . two day have pass , when come a youthful friend ; Fair Nancy with she often would unbend ; Howe'er , so very thoughtful Alice seem , that Nancy -lrb-B- who be penetrate deem -rrb-B- be well convince whatever Alice seek , so very absent she be not for naught . in question she manage with such art , that soon she learn -- what Alice could impart to listen she be thoroughly dispose , while t ` other ev ` ry circumstance disclose , from first to last , each point and mystick hit , and e ` en the largeness of the friar 's wit , the repetition , and the wondrous skill with which he manage ev ` ry thing at will . BUT now , cry Alice , favor I I pray , and tell at once , without reserve , the way that you obtain such wit as you possess , and all particulars to I confess . if I , say Nancy , must avow the truth , you brother Alan be the bounteous youth , who I oblige therewith , and freely teach , what from the holy friar you would have buy . my brother Alan ! -- Alan ! Alice cry ; he ne'er with any be himself supply ; I be all surprise ; he be think a heavy clot , how could he give what he have never get ? fool ! say the other , little thou can ` st know ; for once , to I some information owe ; in such a case much skill be not require , and Alan freely give what I desire . if I thou disbeliev ` st , thy mother ask ; she thoroughly can undertake the task . on such a point we readily should say , Long live the fool who wit so well display !