the farmer and the BADGER Japanese Writer Long , long ago , there live a old farmer and he wife who have make they home in the mountain , far from any town . they only neighbor be a bad and malicious badger . this badger use to come out every night and run across to the farmer 's field and spoil the vegetable and the rice which the farmer spend he time in carefully cultivate . the badger at last grow so ruthless in he mischievous work , and do so much harm everywhere on the farm , that the good - natured farmer could not stand it any longer , and determine to put a stop to it . so he lay in wait day after day and night after night , with a big club , hope to catch the badger , but all in vain . then he lay trap for the wicked animal . the farmer 's trouble and patience be reward , for one fine day on go he round he find the badger catch in a hole he have dig for that purpose . the farmer be delight at have catch he enemy , and carry he home securely bind with rope . when he reach the house the farmer say to he wife : `` I have at last catch the bad badger . you must keep a eye on he while I be out at work and not let he escape , because I want to make he into soup to-night . '' say this , he hang the badger up to the rafter of he storehouse and go out to he work in the field . the badger be in great distress , for he do not at all like the idea of be make into soup that night , and he think and think for a long time , try to hit upon some plan by which he might escape . it be hard to think clearly in he uncomfortable position , for he have be hang upside down . very near he , at the entrance to the storehouse , look out towards the green field and the tree and the pleasant sunshine , stand the farmer 's old wife pound barley . she look tired and old . she face be seam with many wrinkle , and be as brown as leather , and every now and then she stop to wipe the perspiration which roll down she face . `` dear lady , '' say the wily badger , `` you must be very weary do such heavy work in you old age . Wo not you let I do that for you ? my arm be very strong , and I could relieve you for a little while ! '' `` thank you for you kindness , '' say the old woman , `` but I can not let you do this work for I because I must not untie you , for you might escape if I do , and my husband would be very angry if he come home and find you go . '' now , the badger be one of the most cunning of animal , and he say again in a very sad , gentle , voice : `` you be very unkind . you might untie I , for I promise not to try to escape . if you be afraid of you husband , I will let you bind I again before he return when I have finish pound the barley . I be so tired and sore tie up like this . if you would only let I down for a few minute I would indeed be thankful ! '' the old woman have a good and simple nature , and could not think badly of any one . much less do she think that the badger be only deceive she in order to get away . she feel sorry , too , for the animal as she turn to look at he . he look in such a sad plight hang downward from the ceiling by he leg , which be all tie together so tightly that the rope and the knot be cut into the skin . so in the kindness of she heart , and believe the creature 's promise that he would not run away , she untie the cord and let he down . the old woman then give he the wooden pestle and tell he to do the work for a short time while she rest . he take the pestle , but instead of do the work as he be tell , the badger at once spring upon the old woman and knock she down with the heavy piece of wood . he then kill she and cut she up and make soup of she , and wait for the return of the old farmer . the old man work hard in he field all day , and as he work he think with pleasure that no more now would he labor be spoil by the destructive badger . towards sunset he leave he work and turn to go home . he be very tired , but the thought of the nice supper of hot badger soup await he return cheer he . the thought that the badger might get free and take revenge on the poor old woman never once come into he mind . the badger meanwhile assume the old woman 's form , and as soon as he see the old farmer approach come out to greet he on the veranda of the little house , say : `` so you have come back at last . I have make the badger soup and have be wait for you for a long time . '' the old farmer quickly take off he straw sandal and sit down before he tiny dinner-tray . the innocent man never even dream that it be not he wife but the badger who be wait upon he , and ask at once for the soup . then the badger suddenly transform himself back to he natural form and cry out : `` you wife-eating old man ! look out for the bone in the kitchen ! '' laugh loudly and derisively he escape out of the house and run away to he den in the hill . the old man be leave behind alone . he could hardly believe what he have see and hear . then when he understand the whole truth he be so scared and horrify that he faint right away . after a while he come round and burst into tear . he cry loudly and bitterly . he rock himself to and fro in he hopeless grief . it seem too terrible to be real that he faithful old wife have be kill and cook by the badger while he be work quietly in the field , know nothing of what be go on at home , and congratulating himself on have once for all get rid of the wicked animal who have so often spoil he field . and oh ! the horrible thought ; he have very nearly drunk the soup which the creature have make of he poor old woman . `` oh dear , oh dear , oh dear ! '' he wail aloud . now , not far away there live in the same mountain a kind , good-natured old rabbit . he hear the old man cry and sob and at once set out to see what be the matter , and if there be anything he could do to help he neighbor . the old man tell he all that have happen . when the rabbit hear the story he be very angry at the wicked and deceitful badger , and tell the old man to leave everything to he and he would avenge he wife 's death . the farmer be at last comfort , and , wipe away he tear , thank the rabbit for he goodness in come to he in he distress . the rabbit , see that the farmer be grow calmer , go back to he home to lay he plan for the punishment of the badger . the next day the weather be fine , and the rabbit go out to find the badger . he be not to be see in the wood or on the hillside or in the field anywhere , so the rabbit go to he den and find the badger hide there , for the animal have be afraid to show himself ever since he have escape from the farmer 's house , for fear of the old man 's wrath . the rabbit call out : `` why be you not out on such a beautiful day ? come out with I , and we will go and cut grass on the hill together . '' the badger , never doubt but that the rabbit be he friend , willingly consent to go out with he , only too glad to get away from the neighborhood of the farmer and the fear of meet he . the rabbit lead the way mile away from they home , out on the hill where the grass grow tall and thick and sweet . they both set to work to cut down as much as they could carry home , to store it up for they winter 's food . when they have each cut down all they want they tie it in bundle and then start homeward , each carry he bundle of grass on he back . this time the rabbit make the badger go first . when they have go a little way the rabbit take out a flint and steel , and , strike it over the badger 's back as he step along in front , set he bundle of grass on fire . the badger hear the flint striking , and ask : `` what be that noise . ` crack , crack ' ? '' `` oh , that be nothing . '' reply the rabbit ; `` I only say ` crack , crack ' because this mountain be call Crackling Mountain . '' the fire soon spread in the bundle of dry grass on the badger 's back . the badger , hear the crackle of the burning grass , ask , `` what be that ? '' `` now we have come to the ` burning Mountain , ' '' answer the rabbit . by this time the bundle be nearly burn out and all the hair have be burn off the badger 's back . he now know what have happen by the smell of the smoke of the burning grass . scream with pain the badger run as fast as he could to he hole . the rabbit follow and find he lie on he bed groan with pain . `` what a unlucky fellow you be ! '' say the rabbit . `` I can not imagine how this happen ! I will bring you some medicine which will heal you back quickly ! '' the rabbit go away glad and smile to think that the punishment upon the badger have already begin . he hope that the badger would die of he burn , for he feel that nothing could be too bad for the animal , who be guilty of murder a poor helpless old woman who have trust he . he go home and make a ointment by mix some sauce and red pepper together . he carry this to the badger , but before put it on he tell he that it would cause he great pain , but that he must bear it patiently , because it be a very wonderful medicine for burn and scald and such wound . the badger thank he and beg he to apply it at once . but no language can describe the agony of the badger as soon as the red pepper have be paste all over he sore back . he roll over and over and howl loudly . the rabbit , look on , feel that the farmer 's wife be begin to be avenge . the badger be in bed for about a month ; but at last , in spite of the red pepper application , he burn heal and he get well . when the rabbit see that the badger be get well , he think of another plan by which he could compass the creature 's death . so he go one day to pay the badger a visit and to congratulate he on he recovery . during the conversation the rabbit mention that he be go fishing , and describe how pleasant fishing be when the weather be fine and the sea smooth . the badger listen with pleasure to the rabbit 's account of the way he pass he time now , and forget all he pain and he month 's illness , and think what fun it would be if he could go fishing too ; so he ask the rabbit if he would take he the next time he go out to fish . this be just what the rabbit want , so he agree . then he go home and build two boat , one of wood and the other of clay . at last they be both finish , and as the rabbit stand and look at he work he feel that all he trouble would be well reward if he plan succeed , and he could manage to kill the wicked badger now . the day come when the rabbit have arrange to take the badger fishing . he keep the wooden boat himself and give the badger the clay boat . the badger , who know nothing about boat , be delight with he new boat and think how kind it be of the rabbit to give it to he . they both get into they boat and set out . after go some distance from the shore the rabbit propose that they should try they boat and see which one could go the quickest . the badger fall in with the proposal , and they both set to work to row as fast as they could for some time . in the middle of the race the badger find he boat go to piece , for the water now begin to soften the clay . he cry out in great fear to the rabbit to help he . but the rabbit answer that he be avenge the old woman 's murder , and that this have be he intention all along , and that he be happy to think that the badger have at last meet he desert for all he evil crime , and be to drown with no one to help he . then he raise he oar and strike at the badger with all he strength till he fall with the sinking clay boat and be see no more . thus at last he keep he promise to the old farmer . the rabbit now turn and row shoreward , and have land and pull he boat upon the beach , hurry back to tell the old farmer everything , and how the badger , he enemy , have be kill . the old farmer thank he with tear in he eye . he say that till now he could never sleep at night or be at peace in the daytime , thinking of how he wife 's death be unavenged , but from this time he would be able to sleep and eat as of old . he beg the rabbit to stay with he and share he home , so from this day the rabbit go to stay with the old farmer and they both live together as good friend to the end of they day . the shinansha , or the SOUTH POINTING CARRIAGE . the compass , with its needle always point to the North , be quite a common thing , and no one think that it be remarkable now , though when it be first invent it must have be a wonder . now long ago in China , there be a still more wonderful invention call the shinansha . this be a kind of chariot with the figure of a man on it always point to the South . no matter how the chariot be place the figure always wheel about and point to the South . this curious instrument be invent by Kotei , one of the three chinese emperor of the Mythological age . Kotei be the son of the Emperor Yuhi . before he be bear he mother have a vision which foretell that she son would be a great man . one summer evening she go out to walk in the meadow to seek the cool breeze which blow at the end of the day and to gaze with pleasure at the star-lit heaven above she . as she look at the North Star , strange to relate , it shoot forth vivid flash of lightning in every direction . soon after this she son Kotei come into the world . Kotei in time grow to manhood and succeed he father the Emperor Yuhi . he early reign be greatly trouble by the rebel Shiyu . this rebel want to make himself King , and many be the battle which he fight to this end . Shiyu be a wicked magician , he head be make of iron , and there be no man that could conquer he . at last Kotei declare war against the rebel and lead he army to battle , and the two army meet on a plain call Takuroku . the Emperor boldly attack the enemy , but the magician bring down a dense fog upon the battlefield , and while the royal army be wander about in confusion , try to find they way , Shiyu retreat with he troops , laugh at have fool the royal army . no matter however strong and brave the Emperor 's soldier be , the rebel with he magic could always escape in the end . Kotei return to he Palace , and think and ponder deeply as to how he should conquer the magician , for he be determine not to give up yet . after a long time he invent the shinansha with the figure of a man always point South , for there be no compass in those day . with this instrument to show he the way he need not fear the dense fog raise up by the magician to confound he man . Kotei again declare war against Shiyu . he place the shinansha in front of he army and lead the way to the battlefield . the battle begin in earnest . the rebel be be drive backward by the royal troops when he again resort to magic , and upon he say some strange word in a loud voice , immediately a dense fog come down upon the battlefield . but this time no soldier mind the fog , not one be confuse . Kotei by point to the shinansha could find he way and direct the army without a single mistake . he closely pursue the rebel army and drive they backward till they come to a big river . this river Kotei and he man find be swollen by the flood and impossible to cross . Shiyu by use he magic art quickly pass over with he army and shut himself up in a fortress on the opposite bank . when Kotei find he march check he be wild with disappointment , for he have very nearly overtake the rebel when the river stop he . he could do nothing , for there be no boat in those day , so the Emperor order he tent to be pitch in the pleasantest spot that the place afford . one day he step forth from he tent and after walk about for a short time he come to a pond . here he sit down on the bank and be lose in thought . it be autumn . the tree grow along the edge of the water be shed they leaf , which float hither and thither on the surface of the pond . by and by , Kotei 's attention be attract to a spider on the brink of the water . the little insect be try to get on to one of the float leaf near by . it do so at last , and be soon float over the water to the other side of the pond . this little incident make the clever Emperor think that he might try to make something that could carry himself and he man over the river in the same way that the leaf have carry over the spider . he set to work and persevere till he invent the first boat . when he find that it be a success he set all he man to make more , and in time there be enough boat for the whole army . Kotei now take he army across the river , and attack Shiyu 's headquarters . he gain a complete victory , and so put a end to the war which have trouble he country for so long . this wise and good Emperor do not rest till he have secure peace and prosperity throughout he whole land . he be beloved by he subject , who now enjoy they happiness of peace for many long year under he . he spend a great deal of time in make invention which would benefit he people , and he succeed in many besides the boat and the South Pointing shinansha . he have reign about a hundred year when one day , as Kotei be look upward , the sky become suddenly red , and something come glitter like gold towards the earth . as it come nearer Kotei see that it be a great Dragon . the Dragon approach and bow down its head before the Emperor . the Empress and the courtier be so frightened that they run away scream . but the Emperor only smile and call to they to stop , and say : `` do not be afraid . this be a messenger from Heaven . my time here be finish ! '' he then mount the Dragon , which begin to ascend towards the sky . when the EmpressS and the courtier see this they all cry out together : `` wait a moment ! we wish to come too . '' and they all run and catch hold of the Dragon 's beard and try to mount he . but it be impossible for so many people to ride on the Dragon . several of they hang on to the creature 's beard so that when it try to mount the hair be pull out and they fall to the ground . meanwhile the EmpressS and a few of the courtier be safely seat on the Dragon 's back . the Dragon fly up so high in the heaven that in a short time the inmate of the Palace , who have be leave behind disappointed , could see they no more . after some time a bow and a arrow drop to the earth in the courtyard of the Palace . they be recognize as have belong to the Emperor Kotei . the courtier take they up carefully and preserve they as sacred relic in the Palace .