the CLYSTER La Fontain if truth give pleasure , surely we should try ; to find we tale on what we can rely ; Th ' experiment repeatedly I have make , and see how much reality persuade : they draw attention : confidence awake ; fictitious name however we should take , and then the rest detail without disguise : ` Tis thus I mean to manage my supplies . it happen then near Mans , a Normand town , for sapient people always of renown , a maid not long ago a lover have brisk , please , ev ` ry way a handsome lad ; the down as yet be scarcely on he chin ; the girl be such as many wish to win : have charm and fortune , all that be desire , and by the Mansian spark be much admire ; around they swarm , but vain be all they art too much we youth possess the damsel 's heart . the parent , in they wisdom , mean the fair should marry one who be a wealthy heir ; but she contrived to manage matter well ; in spite of ev ` ry thing which might repel , -lrb-B- I know not how -rrb-B- at length he have access ; Though whether through indulgence or address , it matter not : perhaps he noble blood Might work a change when fully understand : the LUCKY , ev ` ry thing contrive to please ; the rest can nothing but misfortune seize . the lover have success ; the parent think he merit such as prudence would have seek ; what more to wish ? -- the miser 's hoarded store : the golden age 's wealth be now no more , a silly shadow , phantom of the brain ; O happy time ! I see indeed with pain , Thou wilt return : -- in MAINE thou shalt arise ; Thy innocence , we fondly may surmise , have second we lover 's ardent flame , and hasten he possession of the dame . the slowness usually in parent find , induce the girl , whose heart by LOVE be bind ; to celebrate the Hymeneal scene , as in the statute of Cythera 's queen . we legendary writer this define a present contract , where they nothing sign ; the thing be common ; -- marriage make in haste : LOVE be perparation : Hymen 's bit for taste . not much examination Cupid make , as parent , lawyer , priest , he lend he aid , and soon conclude matter as desire ; the mansian wisdom no way be require . our spark be satisfy , and with he belle , pass night so happy , nothing could excel ; ` Twere easy to explain ; -- the double key , and gift design the chambermaid to please , make all secure , and ev ` ry joy abound ; the soft delight with secrecy be crown . it happen that we fair one evening say , to she who of each infant step have lead , but of the present secret nothing know : -- I feel unwell ; pray tell I what to do . the other answer , you my dear must take a remedy that easily I 'll make , a clyster you shall have to-morrow morn : by I most willingly it will be bear . when midnight come the sly gallant appear , unluckily no doubt , but he revere the moment that so pleasantly be pass , which always seem , he think , to glide too fast ; Relief he seek , for ev ` ry one below Is destine torment more or less to know . he not a word be tell of thing design , and just as we gallant to sleep inclined , as oft 's the case at length with lover true , quite open bright Aurora 's portal fly , and with a smile the age dame arrive ; the apparatus properly contrived , be in she hand , she hasten to the bed , and take the side that to the stripling lead . OUR lady fair be instantly confuse , or she precaution properly have use , 'twa easy to have keep a steady face , and ` neath the clothes the other 's head to place . pass presently beyond the hidden swain , and t ` other side with rapid motion gain , a thing quite natural , we should suppose ; but fear o ` erpow ` red ; the frightened damsel choose to hide herself , then whisper she gallant , what mighty terror make she bosom pant . the youth be sage , and coolly undertake to offer for she : -- t ` other ` gan to look , with spectacles on nose : soon all go right ; Adieu , she cry , and then withdraw from sight . Heav ` n guard she step , and all conduct away , whose presence secret friendship would betray : should this be think a silly , idle tale ; -lrb-B- and that opinion may perhaps prevail -rrb-B- to censure I , enough will surely try , for critick be severe , and these will cry , you lady like a simpleton escape ; she character you better might have shape ; which make we doubt the truth of what be tell : Naught in you prologue like it we behold . ` twere sueless to reply : ` twould endless prove : no argument such censurer could move ; on man like these , devoid of sense or taste , in vain might cicero he rhet ` rick waste . sufficient ` ti for I , that what be here , I get from those who ev ` ry-where appear the friend of truth : -- let other say the same ; what more would they expect should be my aim ?