the loss of the TALISMAN . Arabian Writer soon after he marriage Prince Camaralzaman dream one night that he see he father Schahzaman on he death-bed , and hear he speak thus to he attendant : ` my son , my son , whom I so tenderly love , have abandon I . ' he awake with a great sigh , which arouse the princess , who ask he the cause of it . next morning the princess go to she own father , and find he alone kiss he hand and thus address herself to he : ` Sir , I have a favor to beg of you majesty ; it be that you will give I leave to go with the prince my husband to see King Schahzaman , my father-in-law . ' ` daughter , ' reply the king , ` though I shall be very sorry to part with you for so long a time , you resolution be worthy of you : go , child , I give you leave , but on condition that you stay no longer than a year in King Schahzaman 's court . ' the princess communicate the king of China 's consent to Prince Camaralzaman , who be transport with joy to hear it . the King of China give order for preparation to be make for the journey ; and when all thing be ready , he accompany the prince and princess several day ' journey on they way . they part at length with great weep on all side : the king embrace they , and have desire the prince to be kind to he daughter , and to love she always , he leave they to proceed on they journey , and , to divert he thought , hunt all the way home . Prince Camaralzaman and the Princess Badoura travel for about a month , and at last come to a meadow of great extent , plant with tall tree , form a agreeable shade . the day be unusually hot , Camaralzaman think it best to encamp there . they alight in one of the finest spot , and the prince order he servant to pitch they tent , and go himself to give direction . the princess , weary with the fatigue of the journey , bid she woman untie she girdle , which they lay down by she , and when she fall asleep , she attendant leave she by herself . Prince Camaralzaman have see all thing in order come to the tent where the princess be sleep ; he enter , and sit down without make any noise , intend to take a nap himself ; but observe the princess 's girdle lie by she , he take it up , and look at the diamond and ruby one by one . in do this , he see a little purse hanging to it , sew neatly on to the stuff , and tie fast with a ribbon ; he feel it , and find there be something solid inside it . desirous to know what it be , he open the purse , and take out a cornelian , engraven with unknown figure and character . ` this cornelian , ' say the prince to himself , ` must be something very valuable , or my princess would not carry it with so much care . ' it be Badoura 's talisman , which the Queen of China have give she daughter as a charm , to keep she , as she say , from any harm as long as she have it about she . the prince , the better to look at the talisman , take it out to the light , the tent be dark ; and while he be hold it up in he hand , a bird dart down from the air and snatch it away from he . imagine the concern and grief of Prince Camaralzaman when he see the bird fly away with the talisman . he be more trouble at it than word can express , and curse he unseasonable curiosity , by which he dear princess have lose a treasure that be so precious and so much value by she . the bird have get she prize settle on the ground not far off , with the talisman in she mouth . the prince draw near , in hope she would drop it ; but , as he approach , the bird take wing , and settle again on the ground further off . Camaralzaman follow , and the bird , have swallow the talisman , take a further flight : the prince still follow ; the further she fly , the more eager he grow in pursue she . thus the bird draw he along from hill to valley , and valley to hill all day , every step lead he further away from the field where he have leave he camp and the Princess Badoura ; and instead of perch at night on a bush where he might probably have take she , she roost on a high tree , safe from pursuit . the prince , vex to the heart for take so much pain to no purpose , thought of return to the camp ; ` but , ' say he to himself , ` which way shall I return ? Shall I go down the hill and valley which I pass over ? Shall I wander in darkness ? and will my strength bear I out ? how dare I appear before my princess without she talisman ? ' overwhelm with such thought , and tire with the pursuit , he lay down under a tree , where he pass the night . he awake the next morning before the bird have leave the tree , and , as soon as he see she on the wing , follow she again that whole day , with no better success , eat nothing but herb and fruit all the way . he do the same for ten day together , pursue the bird , and keep he eye upon she from morning to night , always lie under the tree where she roost . on the eleventh day the bird continue fly , and come near a great city . when the bird come to the wall , she fly over they and the prince see no more of she ; so he despair of ever recover the Princess Badoura 's talisman . Camaralzaman , whose grief be beyond expression , go into the city , which be build by the seaside , and have a fine port ; he walk up and down the street without know where he be , or where to stop . at last he come to the port , in as great uncertainty as ever what he should do . walk along the river-side , he perceive the gate of a garden open , and a old gardener at work . the good man look up and see that he be a stranger and a Mussulman , so he ask he to come in , and to shut the door after he . Camaralzaman enter , and , as the gardener bid he shut the door , demand of the gardener why he be so cautious . ` because , ' reply the old man , ` I see you be a stranger newly arrive , and a Mussulman , and this city be inhabit for the most part by idolater , who have a mortal aversion to we MussulmansS , and treat those few of we that be here with great barbarity . I suppose you do not know this , and it be a miracle that you have escape as you have thus far , these idolater be very apt to fall upon the MussulmansS that be stranger , or to draw they into a snare , unless those stranger know how to beware of they . ' Camaralzaman thank the honest gardener for he advice , and the safety he offer he in he house : he would have say more , but the good man interrupt he , say , ` you be weary , and must want to refresh yourself . come in and rest . ' he conduct he into he little hut , and after the prince have eat heartily of what he set before he , he request he to relate how he come there . Camaralzaman comply with he request , and when he have end he story , he ask he which be the nearest way to the king he father 's territory ; ` for it be in vain , ' say he , ` for I to think of find my princess where I leave she , after wander eleven day from the spot . ah ! ' continue he , ` how do I know she be alive ? ' and so say , he burst into tear . the gardener reply that there be no possibility of he go thither by land , the road be so difficult and the journey so long ; besides , he must necessarily pass through the country of so many barbarous nation that he would never reach he father 's . it be a year 's journey from the city where he be to any country inhabit only by MussulmansS ; the quickest passage for he would be to go to the Isle of Ebony , whence he might easily transport himself to the IslesS of the Children of Khaledan : a ship sail from the port every year to Ebony , and he might take that opportunity of return to those island . ` the ship depart , ' say the gardener , ` but a few day ago : if you have come a little sooner you might have take you passage in it . if you will wait the year round until it make the voyage again , and will stay with I in my house , such as it be , you will be as welcome to it as to you own . ' Prince Camaralzaman be glad he have meet with such a place of refuge , in a place where he have no acquaintance . he accept the offer , and live with the gardener till the time come that the ship be to sail to the Isle of Ebony . he spend he time in work all day in the garden , and all night in sigh , tear and complaint , thinking of he dear Princess Badoura . we must leave he in this place , to return to the princess , whom we leave asleep in she tent . the princess sleep a long time , and , when she awake , wonder that Prince Camaralzaman be not with she ; she call she woman , and ask they if they know where he be . they tell she they see he enter the tent , but do not see he go out again . while they be talk to she , she take up she girdle , find the little purse open , and the talisman go . she do not doubt but that Camaralzaman have take it to see what it be , and that he would bring it back with he . she wait for he impatiently till night , and could not imagine what make he stay away from she so long . when it be quite dark , and she could hear no news of he , she fall into violent grief ; she curse the talisman , and the man that make it . she could not imagine how she talisman should have cause the prince 's separation from she : she do not however lose she judgment , and come to a courageous decision as to what she should do . she only and she woman know of the prince 's be go ; for he man be asleep in they tent . the princess , fear they would betray she if they have any knowledge of it , moderate she grief , and forbid she woman to say or do anything that might create the least suspicion . she then lay aside she robe , and put on one of Prince Camaralzaman 's , be so like he that next day , when she come out , he man take she for he . she command they to pack up they baggage and begin they march ; and when all thing be ready , she order one of she woman to go into she litter , she herself mount on horseback , and ride by she side . they travel for several month by land and sea ; the princess continue , the journey under the name of Camaralzaman . they take the Isle of Ebony on they way to the IslesS of the Children of Khaledan . they go to the capital of the Isle of Ebony , where a king reign whose name be Armanos . the person who first land give out that the ship carry Prince Camaralzaman , who be return from a long voyage and be drive in there by a storm , and the news of he arrival be presently carry to the court . King Armanos , accompany by most of he courtier , go immediately to meet the prince , and meet the princess just as she be landing , and go to the lodging that have be take for she . he receive she as the son of a king who be he friend , and conduct she to the palace , where a apartment be prepare for she and all she attendant , though she would fain have excuse herself , and have lodge in a private house . he show she all possible honor , and entertain she for three day with extraordinary magnificence . at the end of this time , King Armanos , understand that the princess , whom he still take for Prince Camaralzaman , talk of go on board again to proceed on she voyage , charm with the air and quality of such a accomplished prince as he take she to be , seize a opportunity when she be alone , and speak to she in this manner : ` you see , prince , that I be old , and can not hope to live long ; and , to my great mortification , I have not a son to whom I may leave my crown . Heaven have only bless I with one daughter , the Princess Haiatalnefous whose beauty can not be better match than with a prince of you rank and accomplishment . instead of go home , stay and marry she from my hand , with my crown , which I resign in you favor . it be time for I to rest , and nothing could be a greater pleasure to I in my retirement than to see my people rule by so worthy a successor to my throne . ' the King of the Isle of Ebony 's generous offer to bestow he only daughter in marriage , and with she he kingdom , on the Princess Badoura , put she into unexpected perplexity . she think it would not become a princess of she rank to undeceive the king , and to own that she be not Prince Camaralzaman , but he wife , when she have assure he that she be he himself , whose part she have hitherto act so well . she be also afraid refuse the honor he offer she , lest , as he be much bent upon the marriage , he kindness might turn to aversion and hatred , and he might attempt something even against she life . besides , she be not sure whether she might not find Prince Camaralzaman in the court of King Schahzaman he father . these consideration , add to the prospect of obtain a kingdom for the prince she husband , in case she find he again , determine she to accept the proposal of King Armanos , and marry he daughter ; so after have stand silent for some minute , she with blush , which the king take for a sign of modesty , answer , ` Sir , I be infinitely oblige to you majesty for you good opinion of I , for the honor you do I , and the great favor you offer I , which I can not pretend to merit , and dare not refuse . ` but , sir , ' continue she , ` I can not accept this great alliance on any other condition than that you majesty will assist I with you counsel , and that I do nothing without first have you approbation . ' the marriage treaty be thus conclude and agree on , the ceremony be put off till next day . in the mean time Princess Badoura give notice to she officer , who still take she for Prince Camaralzaman , of what she be go to do so that they might not be surprise at it , assure they that the Princess Badoura consent . she talk also to she woman , and charge they to continue to keep the secret . the King of the Isle of Ebony , rejoice that he have get a son-in - law so much to he satisfaction , next morning summon he council , and acquaint they with he design of marry he daughter to Prince Camaralzaman , whom he introduce to they ; and have make he sit down by he side , tell they he resign the crown to the prince , and require they to acknowledge he for king , and swear fealty to he . have say this , he descend from he throne , and the Princess Badoura , by he order , ascend it . as soon as the council break up , the new king be proclaim through the city , rejoicing be appoint for several day , and courier despatch all over the kingdom to see the same ceremony observe with the same demonstration of joy . as soon as they be alone , the Princess Badoura tell the Princess Haiatalnefous the secret , and beg she to keep it , which she promise faithfully to do . ` Princess , ' say Haiatalnefous , ` you fortune be indeed strange , that a marriage , so happy as yours be , should be shorten by so unaccountable a accident . pray heaven you may meet with you husband again soon , and be sure that I will religiously keep the secret commit to I . it will be to I the greatest pleasure in the world to be the only person in the great kingdom of the Isle of Ebony who know what and who you be , while you go on govern the people as happily as you have begin . I only ask of you at present to be you friend . ' then the two princess tenderly embrace each other , and after a thousand expression of mutual friendship lay down to rest . while these thing be take place in the court of the Isle of Ebony , Prince Camaralzaman stay in the city of idolater with the gardener , who have offer he he house till the ship sail . one morning when the prince be up early , and , as he use to do , be prepare to work in the garden , the gardener prevent he , say , ` this day be a great festival among the idolater , and because they abstain from all work themselves , so as to spend the time in they assembly and public rejoicing , they will not let the MussulmansS work . they show be worth see . you will have nothing to do to-day : I leave you here . as the time approach in which the ship be accustom to sail for the Isle of Ebony , I will go and see some of my friend , and secure you a passage in it . ' the gardener put on he best clothes , and go out . when Prince Camaralzaman be alone , instead of go out to take part in the public joy of the city , the solitude he be in bring to he mind , with more than usual violence , the loss of he dear princess . he walk up and down the garden sighing and groaning , till the noise which two bird make on a neighbouring tree tempt he to lift up he head , and stop to see what be the matter . Camaralzaman be surprise to behold a furious battle between these two bird , fight one another with they beak . in a very little while one of they fall down dead at the foot of a tree ; the bird that be victorious take wing again , and fly away . in a instant , two other large bird , that have see the fight at a distance , come from the other side of the garden , and pitch on the ground one at the foot and the other at the head of the dead bird : they look at it some time , shake they head in token of grief ; after which they dig a grave with they talon , and bury it . when they have fill up the grave with the earth they fly away , and return in a few minute , bring with they the bird that have commit the murder , the one hold one of its wing in its beak , and the other one of its leg ; the criminal all the while cry out in a doleful manner , and struggle to escape . they carry it to the grave of the bird which it have lately sacrifice to its rage , and there sacrifice it in just revenge for the murder it have commit . they kill the murderer with they beak . they then open it , tear out the entrails , leave the body on the spot unburied , and fly away . Camaralzaman remain in great astonishment all the time that he stand behold this sight . he draw near the tree , and cast he eye on the scattered entrails of the bird that be last kill , he spy something red hanging out of its body . he take it up , and find it be he beloved Princess Badoura 's talisman , which have cost he so much pain and sorrow and so many sigh since the bird snatch it out of he hand . ` ah , cruel monster ! ' say he to himself , still look at the bird , ` thou tookest delight in do mischief , so I have the less reason to complain of that which thou didst to I : but the greater it be , the more do I wish well to those that revenge my quarrel on thee , in punish thee for the murder of one of they own kind . ' it be impossible to express Prince Camaralzaman 's joy : ` dear princess , ' continue he to himself , ` this happy minute , which restore to I a treasure so precious to thee , be without doubt a presage of we meeting again , perhaps even sooner than I think . ' so say , he kiss the talisman , wrap it up in a ribbon , and tie it carefully about he arm . till now he have be almost every night a stranger to rest , he trouble always keep he awake , but the next night he sleep soundly : he rise somewhat later the next morning than he be accustom to do , put on he work clothes , and go to the gardener for order . the good man bid he root up a old tree which bear no fruit . Camaralzaman take a axe , and begin he work . in cut off a branch of the root , he find that he axe strike against something that resist the blow and make a great noise . he remove the earth , and discover a broad plate of brass , under which be a staircase of ten step . he go down , and at the bottom see a cavity about six yard square , with fifty brass urn place in order around it , each with a cover over it . he open they all , one after another , and there be not one of they which be not full of gold-dust . he come out of the cave , rejoice that he have find such a vast treasure : he put the brass plate over the staircase , and root up the tree against the gardener 's return . the gardener have learn the day before that the ship which be bind for the Isle of Ebony would sail in a few day , but the exact time be not yet fix . he friend promise to let he know the day , if he call upon he on the morrow ; and while Camaralzaman be root up the tree , he go to get he answer . he return with a joyful countenance , by which the prince guess that he bring he good news . ` Son , ' say the old man -lrb-B- so he always call he , on account of the difference of age between he and the prince -rrb-B- , ` be joyful , and prepare to embark in three day , for the ship will then certainly set sail : I have arrange with the captain for you passage . ' ` in my present situation , ' reply Camaralzaman , ` you could not bring I more agreeable news ; and in return , I have also tiding that will be as welcome to you ; come along with I , and you shall see what good fortune heaven have in store for you . ' the prince lead the gardener to the place where he have root up the tree , make he go down into the cave , and when he be there show he what a treasure he have discover , and thank Providence for reward he virtue , and the labor he have do for so many year . ` what do you mean ? ' reply the gardener : ` do you imagine I will take these riches as mine ? they be yours : I have no right to they . for fourscore year , since my father 's death , I have do nothing but dig in this garden , and could not discover this treasure , which be a sign that it be destine for you , since you have be permit to find it . it suit a prince like you , rather than I : I have one foot in the grave , and be in no want of anything . Providence have bestow it upon you , just when you be return to that country which will one day be you own , where you will make a good use of it . ' Prince Camaralzaman would not be outdo in generosity by the gardener . they have a long dispute about it . at last the prince solemnly protest that he would have none of it , unless the gardener would divide it with he and take half . the good man , to please the prince , consent ; so they part it between they , and each have twenty-five urn . have thus divide it , ` Son , ' say the gardener to the prince , ` it be not enough that you have get this treasure ; we must now contrive how to carry it so privately on board the ship that nobody may know anything of the matter , otherwise you will run the risk of lose it . there be no olive in the Isle of Ebony , and those that be export hence be want there ; you know I have plenty of they ; take what you will ; fill fifty pot , half with the gold dust , and half with olive , and I will get they carry to the ship when you embark . ' Camaralzaman follow this good advice , and spend the rest of the day in pack up the gold and the olive in the fifty pot , and fear lest the talisman , which he wear on he arm , might be lose again , he carefully put it into one of the pot , mark it with a particular mark , to distinguish it from the rest . when they be all ready to be ship , the prince retire with the gardener , and talk together , he relate to he the battle of the bird , and how he have find the Princess Badoura 's talisman again . the gardener be equally surprised and joyful to hear it for he sake . whether the old man be quite worn out with age , or have exhaust himself too much that day , he have a very bad night ; he grow worse the next day , and on the third day , when the prince be to embark , be so ill that it be plain he be near he end . as soon as day break , the captain of the ship come in person with several seaman to the gardener 's ; they knock at the garden-door , and Camaralzaman open it to they . they ask he where the passenger be that be to go with he . the prince answer , ` I be he ; the gardener who arrange with you for my passage be ill , and can not be speak with : come in , and let you man carry those pot of olive and my baggage aboard . I will only take leave of the gardener , and follow you . ' the seaman take up the pot and the baggage , and the captain bid the prince make haste , for the wind be fair they be wait for nothing but he . when the captain and he man be go , Camaralzaman go to the gardener , to take leave of he , and thank he for all he good office : but he find he in the agony of death , and have scarcely time to bid he rehearse the article of he faith , which all good MussulmansS do before they die , when the gardener expire in he presence . the prince be under the necessity of embark immediately hasten to pay the last duty to the deceased . he wash he body , bury he in he own garden -lrb-B- for the MahometansS have no cemetery in the city of the idolater , where they be only tolerate -rrb-B- , and as he have nobody to assist he it be almost evening before he have put he in the ground . as soon as he have do it he run to the water - side , carry with he the key of the garden , intend , if he have time , to give it to the landlord ; otherwise to deposit it in some trusty person 's hand before a witness , that he might leave it when he be go . when he come to the port , he be tell the ship have sail several hour before he come and be already out of sight . it have wait three hour for he , and the wind standing fair , the captain dare not stay any longer . it be easy to imagine that Prince Camaralzaman be exceedingly grieve to be force to stay longer in a country where he neither have nor wish to have any acquaintance : to think that he must wait another twelvemonth for the opportunity he have lose . but the greatest affliction of all be he have let go the Princess Badoura 's talisman , which he now give over for lose . the only course that be leave for he to take be to return to the garden to rent it of the landlord , and to continue to cultivate it by himself , deplore he misery and misfortune . he hire a boy to help he to do some part of the drudgery ; and that he might not lose the other half of the treasure , which come to he by the death of the gardener , who die without heir , he put the gold-dust into fifty other pot , which he fill up with olive , to be ready against the time of the ship 's return . while Prince Camaralzaman begin another year of labor , sorrow and impatience , the ship , have a fair wind , continue she voyage to the Isle of Ebony , and happily arrive at the capital . the palace be by the sea-side , the new king , or rather the Princess Badoura , espy the ship as she be enter the port , with all she flag fly , ask what vessel it be ; she be tell that it come annually from the city of the idolater , and be generally richly laden . the princess , who always have Prince Camaralzaman in she mind amidst the glory which surround she , imagine that the prince might be on board , and resolve to go down to the ship and meet he . under presence of inquire what merchandise be on board , and have the first sight of the goods , and choose the most valuable , she command a horse to be bring , which she mount , and ride to the port , accompany by several officer in wait , and arrive at the port just as the captain come ashore . she order he to be bring before she , and ask whence he come , how long he have be on he voyage , and what good or bad fortune he have meet with : if he have any stranger of quality on board , and particularly with what he ship be laden . the captain give a satisfactory answer to all she demand ; and as to passenger , assure she that there be none but merchant in he ship , who be use to come every year and bring rich stuff from several part of the world to trade with , the finest linen paint and plain , diamond , musk , ambergris , camphor , civet , spice , drug , olive , and many other article . the Princess Badoura love olive extremely : when she hear the captain speak of they , she say , ` land they , I will take they off you hand : as to the other goods , tell the merchant to bring they to I , and let I see they before they dispose of they , or show they to any one else . ' the captain , take she for the King of the Isle of Ebony , reply , ` Sire , there be fifty great pot of olive , but they belong to a merchant whom I be force to leave behind . I give he notice myself that I be wait for he , and wait a long time ; but as he do not come , and the wind be good , I be afraid of lose it , and so set sail . ' the princess answer , ` no matter ; bring they ashore ; we will make a bargain for they . ' the captain send he boat aboard , and in a little time it return with the pot of olive . the princess demand how much the fifty pot might be worth in the Isle of Ebony . ` Sir , ' say the captain , ` the merchant be very poor , and you majesty will do he a singular favor if you give he a thousand piece of silver . ' ` to satisfy he , ' reply the princess , ` and because you tell I he be poor , I will order you a thousand piece of gold for he , which do you take care to give he . ' the money be accordingly , pay , and the pot carry to the palace in she presence . Night be draw on when the princess withdraw into the inner palace , and go to the Princess Haiatalnefous ' apartment , order the fifty pot of olive to be bring thither . she open one , to let the Princess Haiatalnefous taste they , and pour they into a dish . Great be she astonishment when she find the olive mingle with gold-dust . ` what can this mean ? ' say she , ` it be wonderful beyond comprehension . ' she curiosity increase , she order Haiatalnefous ' woman to open and empty all the pot in she presence ; and she wonder be still greater , when she see that the olive in all of they be mix with gold-dust ; but when she see she talisman drop out of that into which the prince have put it , she be so surprised that she faint away . the Princess Haiatalnefous and she woman restore the Princess Badoura by throw cold water on she face . when she recover she sens , she take the talisman and kiss it again and again ; but not be willing that the Princess Haiatalnefous 's woman , who be ignorant of she disguise , should hear what she say , she dismiss they . ` Princess , ' say she to Haiatalnefous , as soon as they be go , ` you , who have hear my story , surely guess that it be at the sight of the talisman that I faint . this be the talisman , the fatal cause of my lose my dear husband Prince Camaralzaman ; but as it be that which cause we separation , so I foresee it will be the means of we meeting again soon . ' the next day , as soon as it be light , she send for the captain of the ship ; and when he come she speak to he thus : ` I want to know something more of the merchant to whom the olive belong , that I buy of you yesterday . I think you tell I you have leave he behind you in the city of the idolater : can you tell I what he be do there ? ' ` yes , sire , ' reply the captain , ` I can speak on my own knowledge . I arrange for he passage with a very old gardener , who tell I I should find he in he garden , where he work under he . he show I the place , and for that reason I tell you majesty he be poor . I go there to call he . I tell he what haste I be in , speak to he myself in the garden , and can not be mistake in the man . ' ` if what you say be true , ' reply the Princess Badoura , ` you must set sail this very day for the city of idolater , and fetch I that gardener 's man , who be my debtor ; else I will not only confiscate all you goods and those of you merchant , but you and they life shall answer for he . I have order my seal to be put on the warehouse where they be , which shall not be take off till you bring I that man . this be all I have to say to you ; go , and do as I command you . ' the captain could make no reply to this order , the disobeying of which would be a very great loss to he and he merchant . he tell they about it , and they hasten he away as fast as they could after he have lay in a stock of provision and fresh water for he voyage . they be so diligent , that he set sail the same day . he have a prosperous voyage to the city of the idolater , where he arrive in the night . when he be as near to the city as he think convenient , he would not cast anchor , but let the ship ride off the shore ; and go into he boat , with six of he stoutest seaman , he land a little way off the port , whence he go directly to Camaralzaman 's garden . though it be about midnight when he arrive there , the prince be not asleep . he separation from the fair Princess of China he wife afflict he as usual . he curse the minute in which he curiosity tempt he to touch the fatal girdle . thus do he pass those hour which be devote to rest , when he hear somebody knock at the garden door . he run hastily to it , half-dressed as he be ; but he have no sooner open it , than the captain and he seaman take hold of he , and carry he by force on board the boat , and so to the ship , and as soon as he be safely lodge , they set sail immediately , and make the best of they way to the Isle of Ebony . Hitherto Camaralzaman , the captain , and he man have not say a word to one another ; at last the prince break silence , and ask the captain , whom he recognize , why they have take he away by force ? the captain in he turn demand of the prince whether he be not a debtor of the King of Ebony ? ` I the King of Ebony 's debtor ! ' reply Camaralzaman in amazement ; ` I do not know he , I never have anything to do with he in my life , and never set foot in he kingdom . ' the captain answer , ` you should know that better than I ; you will talk to he yourself in a little while : till then , stay here and have patience . ' though it be night when he cast anchor in the port , the captain land immediately , and take Prince Camaralzaman with he hasten to the palace , where he demand to be introduce to the king . the Princess Badoura have withdraw into the inner palace ; however , as soon as she have hear of the captain 's return and Camaralzaman 's arrival , she come out to speak to he . as soon as she set she eye on the prince , for whom she have shed so many tear , she know he in he gardener 's clothes . as for the prince , who tremble in the presence of a king , as he think she , to whom he be to answer for a imaginary debt , it do not enter into he head that the person whom he so earnestly desire to see stand before he . if the princess have follow the dictate of she inclination , she would have run to he and embrace he , but she put a constraint on herself , believe that it be for the interest of both that she should act the part of a king a little longer before she make herself know . she contented herself for the present with put he into the hand of a officer , who be then in wait , with a charge to take care of he till the next day . when the Princess Badoura have provide for Prince Camaralzaman , she turn to the captain , whom she be now to reward for the important service he have do she . she command another officer to go immediately and take the seal off the warehouse where he and he merchant ' goods be , and give he a rich diamond , worth much more than the expense of both he voyage . she bid he besides keep the thousand piece of gold she have give he for the pot of olive , tell he she would make up the account with the merchant herself . this do , she retire to the Princess of the Isle of Ebony 's apartment , to whom she communicate she joy , pray she to keep the secret still . she tell she how she intend to manage to reveal herself to Prince Camaralzaman , and to give he the kingdom . the Princess of the Isle of Ebony be so far from betray she , that she rejoice and enter fully into the plan . the next morning the Princess of China order Prince Camaralzaman to be apparel in the robe of a emir or governor of a province . she command he to be introduce into the council , where he fine person and majestic air draw all the eye of the lord there present upon he . the Princess Badoura herself be charm to see he again , as handsome as she have often see he , and she pleasure inspire she to speak the more warmly in he praise . when she address herself to the council , have order the prince to take he seat among the emir , she speak to they thus : ` my lord , this emir whom I have advance to the same dignity with you be not unworthy the place assign he . I have know enough of he in my travels to answer for he , and I can assure you he will make he merit know to all of you . ' Camaralzaman be extremely amaze to hear the king of the Isle of Ebony , whom he be far from take for a woman , much less for he dear princess , name he , and declare that he know he , while he think himself certain that he have never see he before in he life . he be much more surprised when he hear he praise he so excessively . those praise , however , do not disconcert he , though he receive they with such modesty as show that he do not grow vain . he prostrate himself before the throne of the king , and rise again , ` Sire , ' say he , ` I want word to express my gratitude to you majesty for the honor you have do I : I shall do all in my power to render myself worthy of you royal favor . ' from the council-board the prince be conduct to a palace , which the Princess Badoura have order to be fit up for he ; where he find officer and domestic ready to obey he command , a stable full of fine horse , and everything suitable to the rank of a emir . then the steward of he household bring he a strong box full of gold for he expense . the less he understand whence come he great good fortune , the more he admire it , but never once imagine that he owe it to the Princess of China . two or three day after , the Princess Badoura , that he might be nearer to she , and in a more distinguished post , make he high treasurer , which office have lately become vacant . he behave himself in he new charge with so much integrity , yet oblige everybody , that he not only gain the friendship of the great but also the affection of the people , by he uprightness and bounty . Camaralzaman would have be the happiest man in the world , if he have have he princess with he . in the midst of he good fortune he never cease lament she , and grieve that he could hear no tiding of she , especially in a country where she must necessarily have come on she way to he father 's court after they separation . he would have suspect something have the Princess Badoura still go by the name of Camaralzaman , but on she accession to the throne she change it , and take that of Armanos , in honor of the old king she father-in-law . she be now know only by the name of the young King Armanos . there be very few courtier who know that she have ever be call Camaralzaman , which name she assume when she arrive at the court of the Isle of Ebony , nor have Camaralzaman so much acquaintance with any of they yet as to learn more of she history . the princess fear he might do so in time , and desire that he should owe the discovery to herself only , resolve to put a end to she own torment and he ; for she have observe that as often as she discourse with he about the affair of he office , he fetch such deep sigh as could be address to nobody but she . she herself also live under such constraint that she could endure it no longer . the Princess Badoura have no sooner make this decision with the Princess Haiatalnefous , than she take Prince Camaralzaman aside , say , ` I must talk with you about a affair , Camaralzaman , which require much consideration , and on which I want you advice . come hither in the evening , and leave word at home that you will not return ; I will take care to provide you a bed . ' Camaralzaman come punctually to the palace at the hour appoint by the princess ; she take he with she into the inner apartment , and have tell the chief chamberlain , who be prepare to follow she , that she have no occasion for he service , and that he should only keep the door shut , she take he into a different apartment . when the prince and princess enter the chamber she shut the door , and , take the talisman out of a little box , give it to Camaralzaman , say , ` it be not long since a astrologer present I with this talisman ; you be skilful in all thing , may perhaps tell I its use . ' Camaralzaman take the talisman , and draw near a lamp to look at it . as soon as he recollect it , with a astonishment which give the princess great pleasure , ` Sire , ' say he to the princess , ` you majesty ask I what this talisman be good for . Alas ! it be only good to kill I with grief and despair , if I do not quickly find the most charming and lovely princess in the world to whom it belong , whose loss it occasion by a strange adventure , the very recital of which will move you majesty to pity such a unfortunate husband and lover , if you would have patience to hear it . ' ` you shall tell I that another time , ' reply the princess ; ` I be very glad to tell you I know something of it already ; stay here a little , and I will return to you in a moment . ' at these word she go into she dressing-room , put off she royal turban , and in a few minute dress herself like a woman ; and have the girdle round she which she wear on the day of they separation , she enter the chamber . Prince Camaralzaman immediately know he dear princess , run to she , and tenderly embrace she , cry out , ` how much I be oblige to the king , who have so agreeably surprise I ! ' ` do not expect to see the king any more , ' reply the princess , embrace he in she turn , with tear in she eye ; ` you see he in I : sit down , and I will explain this enigma to you . ' they sit down , and the princess tell the prince the resolution she come to , in the field where they encamp the last time they be together , as soon as she perceive that she wait for he to no purpose ; how she go through with it till she arrive at the Isle of Ebony , where she have be oblige to marry the Princess Haiatalnefous , and accept the crown which King Armanos offer she as a condition of the marriage : how the princess , whose merit she highly extol , have keep the secret , and how she find the talisman in the pot of olive mingle with the gold dust , and how the finding it be the cause of she send for he to the city of the idolater . the Princess Badoura and Prince Camaralzaman rise next morning as soon as it be light , but the princess would no more put on she royal robe as king ; she dress herself in the dress of a woman , and then send the chief chamberlain to King Armanos , she father-in - law to desire he would be so good as to come to she apartment . when the king enter the chamber , he be amaze to see there a lady who be unknown to he , and the high treasurer with she , who be not permit to come within the inner palace . he sit down and ask where the king be . the princess answer , ` yesterday I be king , sir , and to-day I be the Princess of China , wife of the true Prince Camaralzaman , the true son of King Schahzaman . if you majesty will have the patience to hear both we story , I hope you will not condemn I for put a innocent deceit upon you . ' the king bid she go on , and hear she discourse from the beginning to the end with astonishment . the princess on finish it say to he , ` Sir , in we religion man may have several wife ; if you majesty will consent to give you daughter the Princess Haiatalnefous in marriage to Prince Camaralzaman , I will with all my heart yield up to she the rank and quality of queen , which of right belong to she , and content myself with the second place . if this precedence be not she due , I would , however , give it she , after she have keep my secret so generously . ' King Armanos listen to the princess with astonishment , and when she have do , turn to Prince Camaralzaman , say , ` Son , since the Princess Badoura you wife , whom I have all along think to be my son-in-law , through a deceit of which I can not complain , assure I that she be willing , I have nothing more to do but to ask you if you be willing to marry my daughter and accept the crown , which the Princess Badoura would deservedly wear as long as she live , if she do not quit it out of love to you . ' ` Sir , ' reply Prince Camaralzaman , ` though I desire nothing so earnestly as to see the king my father , yet the obligation I be under to you majesty and the Princess Haiatalnefous be so weighty , I can refuse she nothing . ' Camaralzaman be proclaimed king , and marry the same day with all possible demonstration of joy . not long afterwards they all resume the long interrupted journey to the IslesS of the Children of Khaledan , where they be fortunate enough to find the old King Schahzaman still alive and overjoyed to see he son once more ; and after several month ' rejoicing , King Camaralzaman and the two queen return to the Island of Ebony , where they live in great happiness for the remainder of they life .