the PEN AND INKSTAND . H. C. Andersen in the room of a poet , where he inkstand stand upon the table , it be say , `` it be wonderful what can come out of a inkstand . what will the next thing be ? it be wonderful ! '' `` yes , certainly , '' say the Inkstand . `` it be extraordinary -- that be what I always say , '' he exclaim to the pen and to the other article on the table that be near enough to hear . `` it be wonderful what a number of thing can come out of I . it be quite incredible . and I really do not myself know what will be the next thing , when that man begin to dip into I . one drop out of I be enough for half a page of paper ; and what can not be contain in half a page ? from I all the work of the poet go forth -- all these live man , whom people can imagine they have meet -- all the deep feeling , the humor , the vivid picture of nature . I myself do not understand how it be , for I be not acquaint with nature , but it certainly be in I . from I all these thing have go forth , and from I proceed the troops of charming maiden , and of brave knight on prance steed , and all the lame and the blind , and I do not know what more -- I assure you I do not think of anything . '' `` there you be right , '' say the Pen ; `` you do not think at all ; for if you do , you would comprehend that you only furnish the fluid . you give the fluid , that I may exhibit upon the paper what dwell in I , and what I would bring to the day . it be the pen that write . no man doubt that ; and , indeed , most people have about as much insight into poetry as a old inkstand . '' `` you have but little experience , '' reply the Inkstand . `` you have hardly be in service a week , and be already half worn out . do you fancy you be the poet ? you be only a servant ; and before you come I have many of you sort , some of the goose family , and other of english manufacture . I know the quill as well as the steel pen . many have be in my service , and I shall have many more when _ he _ come -- the man who go through the motion for I , and write down what he derive from I . I should like to know what will be the next thing he 'll take out of I . '' `` Inkpot ! '' exclaim the Pen . late in the evening the poet come home . he have be to a concert , where he have hear a famous violinist , with whose admirable performance he be quite enchant . the player have draw a wonderful wealth of tone from the instrument : sometimes it have sound like tinkle water-drops , like roll pearl , sometimes like bird twitter in chorus , and then again it go swell on like the wind through the fir tree . the poet think he hear he own heart weep , but weep melodiously , like the sound of woman 's voice . it seem as though not only the string sound , but every part of the instrument . it be a wonderful performance ; and difficult as the piece be , the bow seem to glide easily to and fro over the string , and it look as though every one might do it . the violin seem to sound of itself , and the bow to move of itself -- those two appear to do everything ; and the audience forget the master who guide they and breathe soul and spirit into they . the master be forget ; but the poet remember he , and name he , and write down he thought concern the subject : `` how foolish it would be of the violin and the bow to boast of they achievement . and yet we man often commit this folly -- the poet , the artist , the labourer in the domain of science , the general -- we all do it . we be only the instrument which the Almighty use : to he alone be the honor ! we have nothing of which we should be proud . '' yes , that be what the poet write down . he write it in the form of a parable , which he call `` the Master and the Instruments . '' `` that be what you get , madam , '' say the Pen to the Inkstand , when the two be alone again . `` do you not hear he read aloud what I have write down ? '' `` yes , what I give you to write , '' retort the Inkstand . `` that be a cut at you , because of you conceit . that you should not even have understand that you be be quiz ! I give you a cut from within I -- surely I must know my own satire ! '' `` ink-pipkin ! '' cry the Pen . `` writing-stick ! '' cry the Inkstand . and each of they feel a conviction that he have answer well ; and it be a please conviction to feel that one have give a good answer -- a conviction on which one can sleep ; and accordingly they sleep upon it . but the poet do not sleep . thought well up from within he , like the tone from the violin , fall like pearl , rush like the storm-wind through the forest . he understand he own heart in these thought , and catch a ray from the Eternal Master . to _ he _ be all the honor !