16 the three Snake-Leaves BrothersS Grimm there be once on a time a poor man , who could no longer support he only son . then say the son , `` dear father , thing go so badly with we that I be a burden to you . I would rather go away and see how I can earn my bread . '' so the father give he he blessing , and with great sorrow take leave of he . at this time the King of a mighty empire be at war , and the youth take service with he , and with he go out to fight . and when he come before the enemy , there be a battle , and great danger , and it rain shot until he comrade fall on all side , and when the leader also be kill , those leave be about to take flight , but the youth step forth , speak boldly to they , and cry , `` we will not let we fatherland be ruin ! '' then the other follow he , and he press on and conquer the enemy . when the King hear that he owe the victory to he alone , he raise he above all the other , give he great treasure , and make he the first in the kingdom . the King have a daughter who be very beautiful , but she be also very strange . she have make a vow to take no one as she lord and husband who do not promise to let himself be bury alive with she if she die first . `` if he love I with all he heart , '' say she , `` of what use will life be to he afterwards ? '' on she side she would do the same , and if he die first , would go down to the grave with he . this strange oath have up to this time frighten away all wooer , but the youth become so charm with she beauty that he care for nothing , but ask she father for she . `` but dost thou know what thou must promise ? '' say the King . `` I must be bury with she , '' he reply , `` if I outlive she , but my love be so great that I do not mind the danger . '' then the King consent , and the wedding be solemnize with great splendor . they live now for a while happy and contented with each other , and then it befall that the young Queen be attack by a severe illness , and no physician could save she . and as she lay there dead , the young King remember what he have be oblige to promise , and be horrify at have to lie down alive in the grave , but there be no escape . the King have place sentry at all the gate , and it be not possible to avoid he fate . when the day come when the corpse be to be bury , he be take down into the royal vault with it and then the door be shut and bolt . near the coffin stand a table on which be four candle , four loaf of bread , and four bottle of wine , and when this provision come to a end , he would have to die of hunger . and now he sit there full of pain and grief , eat every day only a little piece of bread , drank only a mouthful of wine , and nevertheless see death daily drawing nearer . Whilst he thus gaze before he , he see a snake creep out of a corner of the vault and approach the dead body . and as he think it come to gnaw at it , he draw he sword and say , `` as long as I live , thou shalt not touch she , '' and hew the snake in three piece . after a time a second snake creep out of the hole , and when it see the other lie dead and cut in piece , it go back , but soon come again with three green leaf in its mouth . then it take the three piece of the snake , lay they together , as they ought to go , and place one of the leaf on each wound . immediately the sever part join themselves together , the snake move , and become alive again , and both of they hasten away together . the leaf be leave lie on the ground , and a desire come into the mind of the unhappy man who have be watch all this , to know if the wondrous power of the leaf which have bring the snake to life again , could not likewise be of service to a human being . so he pick up the leaf and lay one of they on the mouth of he dead wife , and the two other on she eye . and hardly have he do this than the blood stir in she vein , rise into she pale face , and color it again . then she draw breath , open she eye , and say , `` ah , God , where be I ? '' `` Thou art with I , dear wife , '' he answer , and tell she how everything have happen , and how he have bring she back again to life . then he give she some wine and bread , and when she have regain she strength , he raise she up and they go to the door and knock , and call so loudly that the sentry hear it , and tell the King . the King come down himself and open the door , and there he find both strong and well , and rejoice with they that now all sorrow be over . the young King , however , take the three snake-leaves with he , give they to a servant and say , `` keep they for I carefully , and carry they constantly about thee ; who know in what trouble they may yet be of service to we ! '' a change have , however , take place in he wife ; after she have be restore to life , it seem as if all love for she husband have go out of she heart . after some time , when he want to make a voyage over the sea , to visit he old father , and they have go on board a ship , she forget the great love and fidelity which he have show she , and which have be the means of rescue she from death , and conceive a wicked inclination for the skipper . and once when the young King lay there asleep , she call in the skipper and seize the sleeper by the head , and the skipper take he by the foot , and thus they throw he down into the sea . when the shameful deed be do , she say , `` now let we return home , and say that he die on the way . I will extol and praise thee so to my father that he will marry I to thee , and make thee the heir to he crown . '' but the faithful servant who have see all that they do , unseen by they , unfasten a little boat from the ship , get into it , sail after he master , and let the traitor go on they way . he fish up the dead body , and by the help of the three snake-leaves which he carry about with he , and lay on the eye and mouth , he fortunately bring the young king back to life . they both row with all they strength day and night , and they little boat fly so swiftly that they reach the old king before the other do . he be astonish when he see they come alone , and ask what have happen to they . when he learn the wickedness of he daughter he say , `` I can not believe that she have behave so ill , but the truth will soon come to light , '' and bid both go into a secret chamber and keep themselves hide from every one . soon afterwards the great ship come sailing in , and the godless woman appear before she father with a trouble countenance . he say , `` why dost thou come back alone ? where be thy husband ? '' `` ah , dear father , '' she reply , `` I come home again in great grief ; during the voyage , my husband become suddenly ill and die , and if the good skipper have not give I he help , it would have go ill with I . he be present at he death , and can tell you all . '' the King say , `` I will make the dead alive again , '' and open the chamber , and bid the two come out . when the woman see she husband , she be thunderstruck , and fall on she knee and beg for mercy . the King say , `` there be no mercy . he be ready to die with thee and restore thee to life again , but thou hast murder he in he sleep , and shalt receive the reward that thou deservest . '' then she be place with she accomplice in a ship which have be pierce with hole , and send out to sea , where they soon sink amid the wave .