`` THERE be a difference . '' H. C. Andersen it be in the month of May . the wind still blow cold , but bush and tree , field and meadow , all alike say the spring have come . there be store of flower even in the wild hedge ; and there spring carry on he affair , and preach from a little apple tree , where one branch hang fresh and bloom , cover with delicate pink blossom that be just ready to open . the apple tree branch know well enough how beautiful he be , for the knowledge be inherent in the leaf as well as in the blood ; and consequently the branch be not surprise when a nobleman 's carriage stop opposite to he on the road , and the young countess say that a apple branch be the loveliest thing one could behold , a very emblem of spring in its most charming form . and the branch be most carefully break off , and she hold it in she delicate hand , and sheltered it with she silk parasol . then they drive to the castle , where there be lofty hall and splendid apartment . pure white curtain flutter round the open window , and beautiful flower stand in shine transparent vase ; and in one of these , which look as if it have be cut out of fresh-fallen snow , the apple branch be place among some fresh light twig of beech . it be charming to behold . but the branch become proud ; and this be quite like human nature . people of various kind come through the room , and accord to they rank they might express they admiration . a few say nothing at all , and other again say too much , and the apple tree branch soon get to understand that there be a difference among plant . `` some be create for beauty , and some for use ; and there be some which one can do without altogether , '' think the apple branch ; and as he stand just in front of the open window , from whence he could see into the garden and across the field , he have flower and plant enough to contemplate and to think about , for there be rich plant and humble plant -- some very humble indeed . `` Poor despise herb ! '' say the apple branch . `` there be certainly a difference ! and how unhappy they must feel , if indeed that kind can feel like myself and my equal . certainly there be a difference , and distinction must be make , or we should all be equal . '' and the apple branch look down with a species of pity , especially upon a certain kind of flower of which great number be find in the field and in ditch . no one bind they into a nosegay , they be too common ; for they might be find even among the paving-stones , shoot up everywhere like the rankest weed , and they have the ugly name of `` dandelion , '' or `` dog-flower . '' `` Poor despise plant ! '' say the apple branch . `` it be not you fault that you receive the ugly name you bear . but it be with plant as with man -- there must be a difference ! '' `` a difference ? '' say the sunbeam ; and he kiss the bloom apple branch , and salute in like manner the yellow dandelion out in the field -- all the brother of the sunbeam kiss they , the poor flower as well as the rich . now the apple branch have never think of the boundless beneficence of Providence in creation towards everything that life and move and have its being ; he have never think how much that be beautiful and good may be hide , but not forget ; but that , too , be quite like human nature . the sunbeam , the ray of light , know better ; and say , `` you do not see far , and you do not see clearly . what be the despise plant that you especially pity ? '' `` the dandelion , '' reply the apple branch . `` it be never receive into a nosegay ; it be trodden under foot . there be too many of they ; and when they run to seed , they fly away like little piece of wool over the road , and hang and cling to people 's dress . they be nothing but weed -- but it be right there should be weed too . oh , I be really very thankful that I be not create one of those flower . '' but there come across the field a whole troop of child ; the youngest of whom be so small that it be carry by the rest , and when it be set down in the grass among the yellow flower it laugh aloud with glee , kick out with its little leg , roll about and pluck the yellow flower , and kiss they in its pretty innocence . the elder child break off the flower with they tall stalk , and bent the stalk round into one another , link by link , so that a whole chain be make ; first a necklace , and then a scarf to hang over they shoulder and tie round they waist , and then a chaplet to wear on the head : it be quite a gala of green link and yellow flower . the eldest child carefully gather the stalk on which hang the white feathery ball , form by the flower that have run to seed ; and this loose , airy wool-flower , which be a beautiful object , look like the finest snowy down , they hold to they mouth , and try to blow away the whole head at one breath : for they grandmother have say that whoever could do this would be sure to get new clothes before the year be out . so on this occasion the despise flower be actually raise to the rank of a prophet or augur . `` do you see ? '' say the sunbeam . `` do you see the beauty of those flower ? do you see they power ? '' `` yes , over child , '' reply the apple branch . and now a old woman come into the field , and begin to dig with a blunt shaftless knife round the root of the dandelion plant , and pull it up out of the ground . with some of the root she intend to make tea for herself ; other she be go to sell for money to the druggist . `` but beauty be a higher thing ! '' say the apple tree branch . `` only the chosen few can be admit into the realm of beauty . there be a difference among plant , just as there be a difference among man . '' and then the sunbeam speak of the boundless love of the Creator , as manifest in the creation , and of the just distribution of thing in time and in eternity . `` yes , yes , that be you opinion , '' the apple branch persist . but now some people come into the room , and the beautiful young countess appear , the lady who have place the apple branch in the transparent vase in the sunlight . she carry in she hand a flower , or something of the kind . the object , whatever it might be , be hide by three or four great leaf , wrap around it like a shield , that no draught or gust of wind should injure it ; and it be carry more carefully than the apple bough have ever be . very gently the large leaf be now remove , and lo , there appear the fine feathery seed crown of the despise dandelion ! this it be that the lady have pluck with the greatest care , and have carry home with every precaution , so that not one of the delicate feathery dart that form its downy ball should be blow away . she now produce it , quite uninjured , and admire its beautiful form , its peculiar construction , and its airy beauty , which be to be scatter by the wind . `` look , with what singular beauty Providence have invest it , '' she say . `` I will paint it , together with the apple branch , whose beauty all have admire ; but this humble flower have receive just as much from Heaven in a different way ; and , various as they be , both be child of the kingdom of beauty . '' and the sunbeam kiss the humble flower , and he kiss the bloom apple branch , whose leaf appear cover with a roseate blush .