THIRD VISIT . H. C. Andersen on this occasion I choose the general `` moving-day '' for my visit to Ole , for on that day it be anything but agreeable down in the street in the town ; for they be full of sweepings , shred , and remnant of all sort , to say nothing of the cast-off bed straw in which one have to wade about . but this time I happen to see two child play in this wilderness of sweepings . they be play at `` go to bed , '' for the occasion seem especially favourable for this sport : they creep under the straw , and draw a old bit of ragged curtain over themselves by way of coverlet . `` it be splendid ! '' they say ; but it be a little too strong for I , and besides , I be oblige to mount up on my visit . `` it be moving-day to-day , '' he say ; `` street and house be like a dust-bin , a large dust-bin ; but I be content with a cartload . I may get something good out of that , and I really do get something good out of it , once . shortly after Christmas I be go up the street ; it be rough weather , wet and dirty ; the right kind of weather to catch cold in . the dustman be there with he cart , which be full , and look like a sample of street on moving-day . at the back of the cart stand a fir tree , quite green still , and with tinsel on its twig : it have be use on christmas-eve , and now it be throw out into the street , and the dustman have stand it up at the back of he cart . it be droll to look at , or you may say it be mournful -- all depend on what you think of when you see it ; and I think about it , and think this and that of many thing that be in the cart : or I might have do so , and that come to the same thing . there be a old lady 's glove too : I wonder what that be think of ? Shall I tell you ? the glove be lie there , point with its little finger at the tree . ` I be sorry for the tree , ' it think ; ` and I be also at the feast , where the chandelier glitter . my life be , so to speak , a ball-night : a pressure of the hand , and I burst ! my memory keep dwelling upon that , and I have really nothing else to live for ! ' this be what the glove thought , or what it might have think . ` that be a stupid affair with yonder fir tree , ' say the potsherd . you see , potsherd think everything be stupid . ` when one be in the dust-cart , ' they say , ` one ought not to give one 's self air and wear tinsel . I know that I have be useful in the world , far more useful than such a green stick . ' that be a view that might be take , and I do not think it quite a peculiar one ; but for all that the fir tree look very well : it be like a little poetry in the dust-heap ; and truly there be dust enough in the street on moving-day . the way be difficult and troublesome then , and I feel oblige to run away out of the confusion ; or if I be on the tower , I stay there and look down , and it be amusing enough . -lrb-B- illustration : the reject traveller . aaaaa -rrb-B- aaa `` there be the good people below , play at ` change house . ' they toil and tug away with they goods and chattel , and the household goblin sit in a old tub and move with they ; all the little grief of the lodging and the family , and the real care and sorrow , move with they out of the old dwelling into the new ; and what gain be there for they or for we in the whole affair ? yes , there be write long ago the good old maxim : ` think on the great moving-day of death ! ' that be a serious thought ; I hope it be not disagreeable to you that I should have touch upon it ? Death be the most certain messenger after all , in spite of he various occupation . Yes , Death be the omnibus conductor , and he be the passport writer , and he countersign we service-book , and he be director of the savings bank of life . Do you understand I ? all the deed of we life , the great and the little alike , we put into this savings bank ; and when Death call with he omnibus , and we have to step in , and drive with he into the land of eternity , then on the frontier he give we we service-book as a pass . as a provision for the journey he take this or that good deed we have do , and let it accompany we ; and this may be very pleasant or very terrific . nobody have ever escape this omnibus journey : there be certainly a talk about one who be not allow to go -- they call he the Wandering Jew : he have to ride behind the omnibus . if he have be allow to get in , he would have escape the clutch of the poet . `` just cast you mind 's eye into that great omnibus . the society be mixed , for king and beggar , genius and idiot , sit side by side : they must go without they property and money ; they have only the service-book and the gift out of the saving 's bank with they . but which of we deed be select and give to we ? perhaps quite a little one , one that we have forget , but which have be record -- small as a pea , but the pea can send out a bloom shoot . the poor bumpkin , who sit on a low stool in the corner , and be jeer at and flout , will perhaps have he worn-out stool give he as a provision ; and the stool may become a litter in the land of eternity , and rise up then as a throne , gleam like gold , and bloom as a arbor . he who always lounge about , and drink the spiced draught of pleasure , that he might forget the wild thing he have do here , will have he barrel give to he on the journey , and will have to drink from it as they go on ; and the drink be bright and clear , so that the thought remain pure , and all good and noble feeling be awaken , and he see and feel what in life he could not or would not see ; and then he have within he the punishment , the _ gnawing worm _ , which will not die through time incalculable . if on the glass there stand write ' _ oblivion _ , ' on the barrel ' _ remembrance _ ' be inscribe . `` when I read a good book , a historical work , I always think at last of the poetry of what I be reading , and of the omnibus of death , and wonder which of the hero 's deed Death take out of the savings bank for he , and what provision he get on the journey into eternity . there be once a french king -- I have forget he name , for the name of good people be sometimes forget , even by I , but it will come back some day ; there be a king who , during a famine , become the benefactor of he people ; and the people raise to he memory a monument of snow , with the inscription , ` quicker than this melt didst thou bring help ! ' I fancy that Death , look back upon the monument , give he a single snow-flake as provision , a snow-flake that never melt , and this flake float over he royal head , like a white butterfly , into the land of eternity . thus too , there be a Louis XI . -- I have remember he name , for one remember what be bad -- a trait of he often come into my thought , and I wish one could say the story be not true . he have he lord high constable execute , and he could execute he , right or wrong ; but he have the innocent child of the constable , one seven and the other eight year old , place under the scaffold so that the warm blood of they father spurt over they , and then he have they send to the Bastille , and shut up in iron cage , where not even a coverlet be give they to protect they from the cold . and King Louis send the executioner to they every week , and have a tooth pull out of the head of each , that they might not be too comfortable ; and the elder of the boy say , ` my mother would die of grief if she know that my younger brother have to suffer so cruelly ; therefore pull out two of my tooth , and spare he . ' the tear come into the hangman 's eye , but the king 's will be stronger than the tear ; and every week two little tooth be bring to he on a silver plate ; he have demand they , and he have they . I fancy that Death take , these two tooth out of the savings bank of life , and give they to Louis XI. , to carry with he on the great journey into the land of immortality : they fly before he like two flame of fire ; they shine and burn , and they bite he , the innocent child 's tooth . `` yes , that be a serious journey , the omnibus ride on the great moving-day ! and when be it to be undertake ? that be just the serious part of it . any day , any how , any minute , the omnibus may draw up . which of we deed will Death take out of the savings bank , and give to we as provision ? let we think of the moving-day that be not mark in the calendar . ''