THIRTY-SECOND EVENING . H. C. Andersen `` I love the child , '' say the Moon , `` especially the quite little one -- they be so droll . sometimes I peep into the room , between the curtain and the window frame , when they be not think of I . it give I pleasure to see they dress and undress . First , the little round naked shoulder come creep out of the frock , then the arm ; or I see how the stock be draw off , and a plump little white leg make its appearance , and a white little foot that be fit to be kiss , and I kiss it too . `` but about what I be go to tell you . this evening I look through a window , before which no curtain be draw , for nobody life opposite . I see a whole troop of little one , all of one family , and among they be a little sister . she be only four year old , but can say she prayer as well as any of the rest . the mother sit by she bed every evening , and hear she say she prayer ; and then she have a kiss , and the mother sit by the bed till the little one have go to sleep , which generally happen as soon as ever she can close she eye . `` this evening the two elder child be a little boisterous . one of they hop about on one leg in he long white nightgown , and the other stand on a chair surround by the clothes of all the child , and declare he be act grecian statue . the third and fourth lay the clean linen carefully in the box , for that be a thing that have to be do ; and the mother sit by the bed of the youngest , and announce to all the rest that they be to be quiet , for little sister be go to say she prayer . `` I look in , over the lamp , into the little maiden 's bed , where she lay under the neat white coverlet , she hand fold demurely and she little face quite grave and serious . she be pray the Lord 's prayer aloud . but she mother interrupt she in the middle of she prayer . ` how be it , ' she ask , ` that when you have pray for daily bread , you always add something I can not understand ? you must tell I what that be . ' the little one lay silent , and look at she mother in embarrassment . ` what be it you say after _ we daily bread _ ? ' ` dear mother , do not be angry : I only say , _ and plenty of butter on it _ . ' ''