THIRTIETH evening . H. C. Andersen `` it be in a little provincial town , '' the Moon say ; `` it certainly happen last year , but that have nothing to do with the matter . I see it quite plainly . to-day I read about it in the papers , but there it be not half so clearly express . in the taproom of the little inn sit the bear leader , eat he supper ; the bear be tie up outside , behind the wood pile -- poor Bruin , who do nobody any harm , though he look grim enough . up in the garret three little child be play by the light of my beam ; the eldest be perhaps six year old , the youngest certainly not more than two . ` Tramp , tramp ' -- somebody be come upstairs : who might it be ? the door be thrust open -- it be Bruin , the great , shaggy Bruin ! he have get tired of wait down in the courtyard , and have find he way to the stair . I see it all , '' say the moon . `` the child be very much frighten at first at the great shaggy animal ; each of they creep into a corner , but he find they all out , and smell at they , but do they no harm . ` this must be a great dog , ' they say , and begin to stroke he . he lay down upon the ground , the youngest boy clamber on he back , and bend down a little head of golden curl , play at hide in the beast 's shaggy skin . presently the eldest boy take he drum , and beat upon it till it rattle again ; the bear rise upon he hind leg , and begin to dance . it be a charming sight to behold . each boy now take he gun , and the bear be oblige to have one too , and he hold it up quite properly . here be a capital playmate they have find ; and they begin march -- one , two ; one , two . `` suddenly some one come to the door , which open , and the mother of the child appear . you should have see she in she dumb terror , with she face as white as chalk , she mouth half open , and she eye fix in a horrify stare . but the youngest boy nod to she in great glee , and call out in he infantile prattle , ` we be play at soldier . ' and then the bear leader come run up . ''