45 thumble as Journeyman BrothersS Grimm A certain tailor have a son , who happen to be small , and no bigger than a Thumb , and on this account he be always call Thumbling . he have , however , some courage in he , and say to he father , `` Father , I must and will go out into the world . '' `` that be right , my son , '' say the old man , and take a long darning-needle and make a knob of sealing-wax on it at the candle , `` and there be a sword for thee to take with thee on the way . '' then the little tailor want to have one more meal with they , and hop into the kitchen to see what he lady mother have cook for the last time . it be , however , just dish up , and the dish stand on the hearth . then he say , `` Mother , what be there to eat to-day ? '' `` see for thyself , '' say he mother . so thumble jump on to the hearth , and peep into the dish , but as he stretch he neck in too far the steam from the food catch hold of he , and carry he up the chimney . he ride about in the air on the steam for a while , until at length he sink down to the ground again . now the little tailor be outside in the wide world , and he travel about , and go to a master in he craft , but the food be not good enough for he . `` Mistress , if you give we no better food , '' say Thumbling , `` I will go away , and early to-morrow morning I will write with chalk on the door of you house , ` too many potato , too little meat ! Farewell , Mr. Potato-King . ' '' `` what wouldst thou have forsooth , grasshopper ? '' say the mistress , and grow angry , and seize a dishcloth , and be just go to strike he ; but my little tailor creep nimbly under a thimble , peep out from beneath it , and put he tongue out at the mistress . she take up the thimble , and want to get hold of he , but little thumble hop into the cloth , and while the mistress be open it out and look for he , he get into a crevice in the table . `` Ho , ho , lady mistress , '' cry he , and thrust he head out , and when she begin to strike he he leap down into the drawer . at last , however , she catch he and drive he out of the house . the little tailor journey on and come to a great forest , and there he fall in with a band of robber who have a design to steal the King 's treasure . when they see the little tailor , they think , `` a little fellow like that can creep through a key-hole and serve as picklock to we . '' `` Hollo , '' cry one of they , `` thou giant Goliath , wilt thou go to the treasure-chamber with we ? Thou canst slip thyself in and throw out the money . '' thumble reflect a while , and at length he say , `` yes , '' and go with they to the treasure-chamber . then he look at the door above and below , to see if there be any crack in they . it be not long before he espy one which be broad enough to let he in . he be therefore about to get in at once , but one of the two sentry who stand before the door , observe he , and say to the other , `` what a ugly spider be creep there ; I will kill it . '' `` let the poor creature alone , '' say the other ; `` it have do thee no harm . '' then thumble get safely through the crevice into the treasure-chamber , open the window beneath which the robber be stand , and throw out to they one thaler after another . when the little tailor be in the full swing of he work , he hear the King come to inspect he treasure-chamber , and creep hastily into a hiding-place . the King notice that several solid thaler be miss , but could not conceive who could have steal they , for lock and bolt be in good condition , and all seem well guard . then he go away again , and say to the sentry , `` be on the watch , some one be after the money . '' when therefore thumble recommence he labor , they hear the money move , and a sound of klink , klink , klink . they run swiftly in to seize the thief , but the little tailor , who hear they come , be still swifter , and leap into a corner and cover himself with a thaler , so that nothing could be see of he , and at the same time he mock the sentry and cry , `` here be I ! '' the sentry run thither , but as they get there , he have already hop into another corner under a thaler , and be cry , `` Ho , ho , here be I ! '' the watchman spring there in haste , but Thumbling have long ago get into a third corner , and be cry , `` Ho , ho , here be I ! '' and thus he make fool of they , and drive they so long round about the treasure-chamber that they be weary and go away . then by degree he throw all the thaler out , dispatch the last with all he might , then hop nimbly upon it , and fly down with it through the window . the robber pay he great compliment . `` Thou art a valiant hero , '' say they ; `` wilt thou be we captain ? '' thumble , however , decline , and say he want to see the world first . they now divide the booty , but the little tailor only ask for a kreuzer because he could not carry more . then he once more buckle on he sword , bid the robber goodbye , and take to the road . First , he go to work with some master , but he have no liking for that , and at last he hire himself as man-servant in a inn . the maid , however , could not endure he , for he see all they do secretly , without they see he , and he tell they master and mistress what they have take off the plate , and carry away out of the cellar , for themselves . then say they , `` wait , and we will pay thee off ! '' and arrange with each other to play he a trick . soon afterwards when one of the maid be mow in the garden , and see thumble jump about and creep up and down the plant , she mow he up quickly with the grass , tie all in a great cloth , and secretly throw it to the cow . now amongst they there be a great black one , who swallow he down without hurt he . down below , however , it please he ill , for it be quite dark , neither be any candle burning . when the cow be be milk he cry , `` Strip , strap , strull , will the pail soon be full ? '' but the noise of the milking prevent he be understand . after this the master of the house come into the cow-byre and say , `` that cow shall be kill to-morrow . '' then thumble be so alarmed that he cry out in a clear voice , `` let I out first , for I be shut up inside she . '' the master hear that quite well , but do not know from whence the voice come . `` where art thou ? '' ask he . `` in the black one , '' answer Thumbling , but the master do not understand what that mean , and go out . next morning the cow be kill . happily thumble do not meet with one blow at the cut up and chop ; he get among the sausage-meat . and when the butcher come in and begin he work , he cry out with all he might , `` do not chop too deep , do not chop too deep , I be amongst it . '' no one hear this because of the noise of the chopping-knife . now poor Thumbling be in trouble , but trouble sharpen the wit , and he spring out so adroitly between the blow that none of they touch he , and he escape with a whole skin . but still he could not get away , there be nothing for it but to let himself be thrust into a black-pudding with the bit of bacon . he quarter there be rather confine , and besides that he be hang up in the chimney to be smoke , and there time do hang terribly heavy on he hand . at length in winter he be take down again , as the black-pudding have to be set before a guest . when the hostess be cut it in slice , he take care not to stretch out he head too far lest a bit of it should be cut off ; at last he see he opportunity , clear a passage for himself , and jump out . the little tailor , however , would not stay any longer in a house where he fare so ill , so at once set out on he journey again . but he liberty do not last long . in the open country he meet with a fox who snap he up in a fit of absence . `` Hollo , Mr. Fox , '' cry the little tailor , `` it be I who be stick in you throat , set I at liberty again . '' `` Thou art right , '' answer the fox . `` Thou art next to nothing for I , but if thou wilt promise I the fowl in thy father 's yard I will let thee go . '' `` with all my heart , '' reply Thumbling . `` Thou shalt have all the cock and hen , that I promise thee . '' then the fox let he go again , and himself carry he home . when the father once more see he dear son , he willingly give the fox all the fowl which he have . `` for this I likewise bring thee a handsome bit of money , '' say Thumbling , and give he father the kreuzer which he earn on he travels . `` but why do the fox get the poor chicken to eat ? '' `` oh , you goose , you father would surely love he child far more than the fowl in the yard ! ''