TWENTY-THIRD EVENING . H. C. Andersen Hear what the Moon tell I . `` some year ago , here in Copenhagen , I look through the window of a mean little room . the father and mother sleep , but the little son be not asleep . I see the flowered cotton curtain of the bed move , and the child peep forth . at first I think he be look at the great clock , which be gaily paint in red and green . at the top sit a cuckoo , below hang the heavy leaden weight , and the pendulum with the polished disc of metal go to and fro , and say ` tick , tick . ' but no , he be not look at the clock , but at he mother 's spinning wheel , that stand just underneath it . that be the boy 's favorite piece of furniture , but he dare not touch it , for if he meddle with it he get a rap on the knuckle . for hour together , when he mother be spinning , he would sit quietly by she side , watch the murmur spindle and the revolving wheel , and as he sit he think of many thing . oh , if he might only turn the wheel himself ! Father and mother be asleep ; he look at they , and look at the spinning wheel , and presently a little naked foot peer out of the bed , and then a second foot , and then two little white leg . there he stand . he look round once more , to see if father and mother be still asleep -- yes , they sleep ; and now he creep _ softly _ , _ softly _ , in he short little nightgown , to the spinning wheel , and begin to spin . the thread fly from the wheel , and the wheel whirl faster and faster . I kiss he fair hair and he blue eye , it be such a pretty picture . `` at that moment the mother awake . the curtain shake , she look forth , and fancy she see a gnome or some other kind of little spectre . ` in Heaven 's name ! ' she cry , and arouse she husband in a frightened way . he open he eye , rub they with he hand , and look at the brisk little lad . ` why , that be Bertel , ' say he . and my eye quit the poor room , for I have so much to see . at the same moment I look at the hall of the Vatican , where the marble god be enthrone . I shine upon the group of the Laocoon ; the stone seem to sigh . I press a silent kiss on the lip of the muse , and they seem to stir and move . but my ray linger longest about the Nile group with the colossal god . Leaning against the Sphinx , he lie there thoughtful and meditative , as if he be think on the rolling century ; and little love-gods sport with he and with the crocodile . in the horn of plenty sit with fold arm a little tiny love-god , contemplate the great solemn river-god , a true picture of the boy at the spinning wheel -- the feature be exactly the same . charming and life-like stand the little marble form , and yet the wheel of the year have turn more than a thousand time since the time when it spring forth from the stone . just as often as the boy in the little room turn the spinning wheel have the great wheel murmur , before the age could again call forth marble god equal to those he afterwards form . `` year have pass since all this happen , '' the Moon go on to say . `` yesterday I look upon a bay on the eastern coast of Denmark . glorious wood be there , and high tree , a old knightly castle with red wall , swan float in the pond , and in the background appear , among orchard , a little town with a church . many boat , the crew all furnish with torch , glide over the silent expanse -- but these fire have not be kindle for catch fish , for everything have a festive look . Music sound , a song be sing , and in one of the boat the man stand erect to whom homage be pay by the rest , a tall sturdy man , wrap in a cloak . he have blue eye and long white hair . I know he , and thought of the Vatican , and of the group of the Nile , and the old marble god . I think of the simple little room where little Bertel sit in he night-shirt by the spinning wheel . the wheel of time have turn , and new god have come forth from the stone . from the boat there arise a shout : ` Hurrah , hurrah for Bertel Thorwaldsen ! ' ''