TWENTIETH evening . H. C. Andersen it be more than a fortnight since the Moon have shone . now he stand once more , round and bright , above the cloud , move slowly onward . hear what the Moon tell I . `` from a town in Fezzan I follow a caravan . on the margin of the sandy desert , in a salt plain , that shone like a frozen lake , and be only cover in spot with light drift sand , a halt be make . the eldest of the company -- the water gourd hang at he girdle , and on he head be a little bag of unleavened bread -- draw a square in the sand with he staff , and write in it a few word out of the Koran , and then the whole caravan pass over the consecrated spot . a young merchant , a child of the East , as I could tell by he eye and he figure , ride pensively forward on he white snort steed . be he thinking , perchance , of he fair young wife ? it be only two day ago that the camel , adorn with fur and with costly shawl , have carry she , the beauteous bride , round the wall of the city , while drum and cymbal have sound , the woman sing , and festive shot , of which the bridegroom fire the greatest number , resounded round the camel ; and now he be journey with the caravan across the desert . `` for many night I follow the train . I see they rest by the well-side among the stunt palm ; they thrust the knife into the breast of the camel that have fall , and roasted its flesh by the fire . my beam cool the glowing sand , and show they the black rock , dead island in the immense ocean of sand . no hostile tribe meet they in they pathless route , no storm arise , no column of sand whirl destruction over the journey caravan . at home the beautiful wife pray for she husband and she father . ` be they dead ? ' she ask of my golden crescent ; ` be they dead ? ' she cry to my full disc . now the desert lie behind they . this evening they sit beneath the lofty palm tree , where the crane flutter round they with its long wing , and the pelican watch they from the branch of the mimosa . the luxuriant herbage be trample down , crush by the foot of elephant . a troop of negro be return from a market in the interior of the land : the woman , with copper button in they black hair , and deck out in clothes dye with indigo , drive the heavily-laden ox , on whose back slumber the naked black child . a negro lead a young lion which he have buy , by a string . they approach the caravan ; the young merchant sit pensive and motionless , thinking of he beautiful wife , dream , in the land of the black , of he white fragrant lily beyond the desert . he raise he head , and -- '' but at this moment a cloud pass before the Moon , and then another . I hear nothing more from he this evening .