under the WILLOW tree . H. C. Andersen the region round the little town of Kjoege be very bleak and bare . the town certainly lie by the sea shore , which be always beautiful , but just there it might be more beautiful than it be : all around be flat field , and it be a long way to the forest . but when one be very much at home in a place , one always find something beautiful , and something that one long for in the most charming spot in the world that be strange to we . we confess that , by the utmost boundary of the little town , where some humble garden skirt the streamlet that fall into the sea , it must be very pretty in summer ; and this be the opinion of the two child from neighbour house , who be play there , and force they way through the gooseberry bush , to get to one another . in one of the garden stand a elder tree , and in the other a old willow , and under the latter the child be especially very fond of playing ; they be allow to play there , though , indeed , the tree stand close beside the stream , and they might easily have fall into the water . but the eye of God watch over the little one ; if it do not , they would be badly off . and , moreover , they be very careful with respect to the water ; in fact , the boy be so much afraid of it , that they could not lure he into the sea in summer , when the other child be splash about in the wave . accordingly , he be famously jeer and mock at , and have to bear the jeering and mockery as best he could . but once Joanna , the neighbour 's little girl , dream she be sail in a boat , and Knud wade out to join she till the water rise , first to he neck , and afterwards close over he head , so that he disappear altogether . from the time when little Knud hear of this dream , he would no longer bear the teasing of the other boy . he might go into the water now , he say , for Joanna have dream it . he certainly never carry the idea into practice , but the dream be he great guide for all that . they parent , who be poor people , often take tea together , and Knud and Joanna play in the garden and on the high-road , where a row of willow have be plant beside the skirt ditch ; these tree , with they poll top , certainly do not look beautiful , but they be not put there for ornament , but for use . the old willow tree in the garden be much handsomer , and therefore the child be fond of sit under it . in the town itself there be a great market-place , and at the time of the fair this place be cover with whole street of tent and booth , contain silk ribbon , boot , and everything that a person could wish for . there be great crowding , and generally the weather be rainy ; but it do not destroy the fragrance of the honey-cakes and the gingerbread , of which there be a booth quite full ; and the best of it be , that the man who keep this booth come every year to lodge during the fair-time in the dwelling of little Knud 's father . consequently there come a present of a bit of gingerbread every now and then , and of course Joanna receive she share of the gift . but , perhaps the most charming thing of all be that the gingerbread dealer know all sort of tale , and could even relate history about he own gingerbread cake ; and one evening , in particular , he tell a story about they which make such a deep impression on the child that they never forget it ; and for that reason it be perhaps advisable that we should hear it too , more especially as the story be not long . `` on the shop-board , '' he say , `` lay two gingerbread cake , one in the shape of a man with a hat , the other of a maiden without a bonnet ; both they face be on the side that be uppermost , for they be to be look at on that side , and not on the other ; and , indeed , most people have a favourable side from which they should be view . on the left side the man wear a bitter almond -- that be he heart ; but the maiden , on the other hand , be honey-cake all over . they be place as sample on the shop-board , and remain there a long time , at last they fall in love with one another , but neither tell the other , as they should have do if they have expect anything to come of it . '' ` he be a man , and therefore he must speak first , ' she think ; but she feel quite contented , for she know she love be return . `` he thought be far more extravagant , as be always the case with a man . he dream that he be a real street boy , that he have four penny of he own , and that he purchase the maiden , and eat she up . so they lay on the shop-board for week and week , and grow dry and hard , but the thought of the maiden become ever more gentle and maidenly . '' ` it be enough for I that I have live on the same table with he , ' she say , and crack ! she break in two . '' ` if she have only know of my love , she would have keep together a little longer , ' he think . `` and that be the story , and here they be , both of they , '' say the baker in conclusion . `` they be remarkable for they curious history , and for they silent love , which never come to anything . and there they be for you ! '' and , so say , he give Joanna the man who be yet entire , and Knud get the broken maiden ; but the child have be so much impress by the story that they could not summon courage to eat the lover up . on the following day they go out with they to the churchyard , and sit down by the church wall , which be cover , winter and summer , with the most luxuriant ivy as with a rich carpet . here they stand the two cake figure up in the sunshine among the green leaf , and tell the story to a group of other child ; they tell they of the silent love which lead to nothing . it be call _ love _ because the story be so lovely , on that they all agree . but when they turn to look again at the gingerbread pair , a big boy , out of mischief , have eat up the broken maiden . the child cry about this , and afterwards -- probably that the poor lover might not be leave in the world lonely and desolate -- they eat he up too ; but they never forget the story . the child be always together by the elder tree and under the willow , and the little girl sing the most beautiful song with a voice that be clear as a bell . Knud , on the other hand , have not a note of music in he , but he know the word of the song , and that , at least , be something . the people of Kjoege , even to the rich wife of the fancy-shop keeper , stand still and listen when Joanna sing . `` she have a very sweet voice , that little girl , '' they say . those be glorious day , but they could not last for ever . the neighbor be neighbor no longer . the little maiden 's mother be dead , and the father intend to marry again , in the capital , where he have be promise a living as a messenger , which be to be a very lucrative office . and the neighbor separate regretfully , the child weep heartily , but the parent promise that they should at least write to one another once a year . and Knud be bind apprentice to a shoemaker , for the big boy could not be allow to run wild any longer ; and moreover he be confirm . ah , how gladly on that day of celebration would he have be in Copenhagen with little Joanna ! but he remain in Kjoege , and have never yet be to Copenhagen , though the little town be only five danish mile distant from the capital ; but far across the bay , when the sky be clear , Knud have see the tower in the distance , and on the day of he confirmation he could distinctly see the golden cross on the principal church glittering in the sun . ah , how often he thought be with Joanna ! do she think of he ? Yes . towards Christmas there come a letter from she father to the parent of Knud , to say that they be get on very well in Copenhagen , and especially might joanna look forward to a brilliant future on the strength of she fine voice . she have be engage in the theater in which people sing , and be already earn some money , out of which she send she dear neighbor of Kjoege a dollar for the merry Christmas Eve . they be to drink she health , she have herself add in a postscript , and in the same postscript there stand further , `` a kind greet to Knud . '' the whole family weep : and yet all this be very pleasant ; those be joyful tear that they shed . Knud 's thought have be occupy every day with Joanna ; and now he know that she also think of he : and the nearer the time come when he apprenticeship would be over , the more clearly do it appear to he that he be very fond of Joanna , and that she must be he wife ; and when he think of this , a smile come upon he lip , and he draw the thread twice as fast as before , and press he foot hard against the knee-strap . he run the awl far into he finger , but he do not care for that . he determine not to play the dumb lover , as the two gingerbread cake have do : the story should teach he a lesson . and now he be a journeyman , and he knapsack be pack ready for he journey : at length , for the first time in he life , he be to go to Copenhagen , where a master be already wait for he . how glad Joanna would be ! she be now seventeen year old , and he nineteen . already in Kjoege he have want to buy a gold ring for she ; but he recollect that such thing be to be have far better in Copenhagen . and now he take leave of he parent , and on a rainy day , late in the autumn , go forth on foot out of the town of he birth . the leaf be fall down from the tree , and he arrive at he new master 's in the metropolis wet to the skin . next Sunday he be to pay a visit to Joanna 's father . the new journeyman 's clothes be bring forth , and the new hat from Kjoege be put on , which become Knud very well , for till this time he have only worn a cap . and he find the house he seek , and mount flight after flight of stair until he become almost giddy . it be terrible to he to see how people live pile up one over the other in the dreadful city . everything in the room have a prosperous look , and Joanna 's father receive he very kindly . to the new wife he be a stranger , but she shake hand with he , and give he some coffee . `` Joanna will be glad to see you , '' say the father : `` you have grow quite a nice young man . you shall see she presently . she be a girl who rejoice my heart , and , please God , she will rejoice it yet more . she have she own room now , and pay we rent for it . '' and the father knock quite politely at the door , as if he be a visitor , and then they go in . but how pretty everything be in that room ! such a apartment be certainly not to be find in all Kjoege : the queen herself could not be more charmingly lodge . there be carpet , there be window curtain quite down to the floor , and around be flower and picture , and a mirror into which there be almost danger that a visitor might step , for it be as large as a door ; and there be even a velvet chair . Knud see all this at a glance : and yet he see nothing but Joanna . she be a grown maiden , quite different from what Knud have fancy she , and much more beautiful . in all Kjoege there be not a girl like she . how graceful she be , and with what a odd unfamiliar glance she look at Knud ! but that be only for a moment , and then she rush towards he as if she would have kiss he . she do not really do so , but she come very near it . yes , she be certainly rejoice at the arrival of the friend of she youth ! the tear be actually in she eye ; and she have much to say , and many question to put concern all , from Knud 's parent down to the elder tree and the willow , which she call elder-mother and willow-father , as if they have be human being ; and indeed they might pass as such , just as well as the gingerbread cake ; and of these she speak too , and of they silent love , and how they have lie upon the shop-board and split in two -- and then she laugh very heartily ; but the blood mount into Knud 's cheek , and he heart beat thick and fast . no , she have not grow proud at all . and it be through she -- he notice it well -- that she parent invite he to stay the whole evening with they ; and she pour out the tea and give he a cup with she own hand ; and afterwards she take a book and read aloud to they , and it seem to knud that what she read be all about himself and he love , for it match so well with he thought ; and then she sing a simple song , but through she singing it become like a history , and seem to be the outpouring of she very heart . yes , certainly she be fond of Knud . the tear course down he cheek -- he could not restrain they , nor could he speak a single word : he seem to himself as if he be strike dumb ; and yet she press he hand , and say , `` you have a good heart , Knud -- remain always as you be now . '' that be a evening of matchless delight to Knud ; to sleep after it be impossible , and accordingly Knud do not sleep . at parting , Joanna 's father have say , `` now , you will not forget we altogether ! do not let the whole winter go by without once come to see we again ; '' and therefore he could very well go again the next Sunday , and resolve to do so . but every evening when work hour be over -- and they work by candlelight there -- Knud go out through the town : he go into the street in which Joanna live , and look up at she window ; it be almost always light up , and one evening he could see the shadow of she face quite plainly on the curtain -- and that be a grand evening for he . he master 's wife do not like he gallivanting abroad every evening , as she express it ; and she shake she head ; but the master only smile . `` he be only a young fellow , '' he say . but Knud think to himself : `` on Sunday I shall see she , and I shall tell she how completely she reign in my heart and soul , and that she must be my little wife . I know I be only a poor journeyman shoemaker , but I shall work and strive -- yes , I shall tell she so . nothing come of silent love : I have learn that from the cake . '' and Sunday come round , and Knud sally forth ; but , unluckily , they be all invite out for that evening , and be oblige to tell he so . Joanna press he hand and say , `` have you ever be to the theater ? you must go once . I shall sing on Wednesday , and if you have time on that evening , I will send you a ticket ; my father know where you master life . '' how kind that be of she ! and on Wednesday at noon he receive a sealed paper , with no word write in it ; but the ticket be there , and in the evening Knud go to the theater for the first time in he life . and what do he see ? he see Joanna , and how charming and how beautiful she look ! she be certainly marry to a stranger , but that be all in the play -- something that be only make-believe , as Knud know very well . if it have be real , he think , she would never have have the heart to send he a ticket that he might go and see it . and all the people shout and applaud , and Knud cry out `` hurrah ! '' even the king smile at Joanna , and seem to delight in she . ah , how small Knud feel ! but then he love she so dearly , and think that she love he too ; but it be for the man to speak the first word , as the gingerbread maiden in the child 's story have teach he : and there be a great deal for he in that story . so soon as Sunday come , he go again . he feel as if he be go into a church . Joanna be alone , and receive he -- it could not have happen more fortunately . `` it be well that you be come , '' she say . `` I have a idea of send my father to you , only I feel a presentiment that you would be here this evening ; for I must tell you that I start for France on Friday : I must go there , if I be to become efficient . '' it seem to Knud as if the whole room be whirling round and round with he . he feel as if he heart would presently burst : no tear rise to he eye , but still it be easy to see how sorrowful he be . `` you honest , faithful soul ! '' she exclaim ; and these word of hers loosen Knud 's tongue . he tell she how constantly he love she , and that she must become he wife ; and as he say this , he see Joanna change color and turn pale . she let he hand fall , and answer , seriously and mournfully , `` Knud , do not make yourself and I unhappy . I shall always be a good sister to you , one in whom you may trust , but I shall never be anything more . '' and she draw she white hand over he hot forehead . `` Heaven give we strength for much , '' she say , `` if we only endeavor to do we best . '' at that moment the stepmother come into the room ; and Joanna say quickly , `` Knud be quite inconsolable because I be go away . come , be a man , '' she continue , and lay she hand upon he shoulder ; and it seem as if they have be talk of the journey , and nothing else . `` you be a child , '' she add ; `` but now you must be good and reasonable , as you use to be under the willow tree , when we be both child . '' but Knud feel as if the whole world have slide out of its course , and he thought be like a loose thread flutter to and fro in the wind . he stay , though he could not remember if she have ask he to stay ; and she be kind and good , and pour out he tea for he , and sing to he . it have not the old tone , and yet it be wonderfully beautiful , and make he heart feel ready to burst . and then they part . Knud do not offer she he hand , but she seize it , and say , `` surely you will shake hand with you sister at parting , old playfellow ! '' and she smile through the tear that be roll over she cheek , and she repeat the word `` brother '' -- and certainly there be good consolation in that -- and thus they part . she sail to France , and Knud wander about the muddy street of Copenhagen . the other journeyman in the workshop ask he why he go about so gloomily , and tell he he should go and amuse himself with they , for he be a young fellow . and they go with he to the dancing-rooms . he see many handsome girl there , but certainly not one like Joanna ; and here , where he think to forget she , she stand more vividly than ever before the eye of he soul . `` Heaven give we strength for a great deal , if we only try to do we best , '' she have say ; and holy thought come into he mind , and he fold he hand . the violin play , and the girl dance round in a circle ; and he be quite startle , for it seem to he as if he be in a place to which he ought not to have bring Joanna -- for she be there with he , in he heart ; and accordingly he go out . he run through the street , and pass by the house where she have dwell : it be dark there , dark everywhere , and empty , and lonely . the world go on its course , but Knud pursue he lonely way , unheedingly . the winter come , and the stream be freeze . Everything seem to be prepare for a burial . but when spring return , and the first steamer be to start , a longing seize he to go away , far , far into the world , but not to France . so he pack he knapsack , and wander far into the german land , from city to city , without rest or peace ; and it be not till he come to the glorious old city of Nuremberg that he could master he restless spirit ; and in Nuremberg , therefore , he decide to remain . Nuremberg be a wonderful old city , and look as if it be cut out of a old picture-book . the street seem to stretch themselves along just as they please . the house do not like standing in regular rank . gable with little tower , arabesque , and pillar , start out over the pathway , and from the strange peaked roof water-spouts , form like dragon or great slim dog , extend far over the street . here in the market-place stand Knud , with he knapsack on he back . he stand by one of the old fountain that be adorn with splendid bronze figure , scriptural and historical , rise up between the gush jet of water . a pretty servant-maid be just fill she pail , and she give Knud a refreshing draught ; and as she hand be full of rose , she give he one of the flower , and he accept it as a good omen . from the neighbouring church the strain of the organ be sound : they seem to he as familiar as the tone of the organ at home at Kjoege ; and he go into the great cathedral . the sunlight stream in through the stained glass window , between the two lofty slender pillar . he spirit become prayerful , and peace return to he soul . and he seek and find a good master in Nuremberg , with whom he stay , and in whose house he learn the german language . the old moat round the town have be convert into a number of little kitchen garden ; but the high wall be stand yet , with they heavy tower . the ropemaker twist he rope on a gallery or walk build of wood , inside the town wall , where elder bush grow out of the cleft and crack , spread they green twig over the little low house that stand below ; and in one of these dwelt the master with whom Knud work ; and over the little garret window at which Knud sit the elder wave its branch . here he live through a summer and a winter ; but when the spring come again he could bear it no longer . the elder be in blossom , and its fragrance remind he so of home , that he fancy himself back in the garden at Kjoege ; and therefore Knud go away from he master , and dwelt with another , farther in the town , over whose house no elder bush grow . he workshop be quite close to one of the old stone bridge , by a low water-mill , that rush and foam always . without , roll the roaring stream , hem in by house , whose old decayed gable look ready to topple down into the water . no elder grow here -- there be not even a flower-pot with its little green plant ; but just opposite the workshop stand a great old willow tree , that seem to cling fast to the house , for fear of be carry away by the water , and which stretch forth its branch over the river , just as the willow at Kjoege spread its arm across the streamlet by the garden there . yes , he have certainly go from the `` elder-mother '' to the `` willow-father . '' the tree here have something , especially on moonlight evening , that go straight to he heart -- and that something be not in the moonlight , but in the old tree itself . nevertheless , he could not remain . why not ? ask the willow tree , ask the bloom elder ! and therefore he bid farewell to he master in Nuremberg , and journeyed onward . to no one do he speak of Joanna -- in he secret heart he hide he sorrow ; and he think of the deep meaning in the old childish story of the two cake . now he understand why the man have a bitter almond in he breast -- he himself feel the bitterness of it ; and Joanna , who be always so gentle and kind , be typify by the honey-cake . the strap of he knapsack seem so tight across he chest that he could scarcely breathe ; he loosen it , but be not relieve . he see but half the world around he ; the other half he carry about he , and within himself . and thus it stand with he . not till he come in sight of the high mountain do the world appear freer to he ; and now he thought be turn without , and tear come into he eye . the Alps appear to he as the fold wing of the earth ; how if they be to unfold themselves , and display they variegated picture of black wood , foam water , cloud , and mass of snow ? at the last day , he think , the world will lift up its great wing , and mount upward towards the sky , and burst like a soap-bubble in the glance of the Highest ! `` ah , '' sigh he , `` that the last day be come ! '' silently he wander through the land , that seem to he as a orchard cover with soft turf . from the wooden balcony of the house the girl who sit busy with they lace-making nodded at he ; the summit of the mountain glow in the red sun of the evening ; and when he see the green lake gleaming among the dark tree , he think of the coast by the Bay of Kjoege , and there be a longing in he bosom , but it be pain no more . there where the Rhine roll onward like a great billow , and burst , and be change into snow-white , gleaming , cloud-like mass , as if cloud be be create there , with the rainbow flutter like a loose band above they ; there he think of the water-mill at Kjoege , with its rush , foam water . gladly would he have remain in the quiet rhenish town , but here too be too many elder tree and willow , and therefore he journey on , over the high , mighty mountain , through shatter wall of rock , and on road that cling like swallow ' nest to the mountain-side . the water foam on in the depths , the cloud be below he , and he stride on over thistle , Alpine rose , and snow , in the warm summer sun ; and say farewell to the land of the North , he pass on under the shade of bloom chestnut tree , and through vineyard and field of maize . the mountain be a wall between he and all he recollection ; and he wish it to be so . before he lay a great glorious city which they call _ Milano _ , and here he find a german master who give he work . they be a old pious couple , in whose workshop he now labor . and the two old people become quite fond of the quiet journeyman , who say little , but work all the more , and lead a pious christian life . to himself also it seem as if Heaven have lift the heavy burden from he heart . he favorite pastime be to mount now and then upon the mighty marble church , which seem to he to have be form of the snow of he native land , fashion into roof , and pinnacle , and decorate open hall : from every corner and every point the white statue smile upon he . above he be the blue sky , below he the city and the wide-spreading Lombard plain , and towards the north the high mountain clothe with perpetual snow ; and he think of the church at Kjoege , with its red , ivy-covered wall , but he do not long to go thither : here , beyond the mountain , he would be bury . he have dwell here a year , and three year have pass away since he leave he home , when one day he master take he into the city , not to the circus where rider exhibit , but to the opera , where be a hall worth see . there be seven storey , from each of which beautiful silken curtain hang down , and from the ground to the dizzy height of the roof sit elegant lady , with bouquet of flower in they hand , as if they be at a ball , and the gentleman be in full dress , and many of they decorate with gold and silver . it be as bright there as in the brilliant sunshine , and the music roll gloriously through the building . everything be much more splendid than in the theater at Copenhagen , but then Joanna have be there , and -- could it be ? Yes , it be like magic -- she be here also ! for the curtain rise , and Joanna appear , dress in silk and gold , with a crown upon she head : she sing as he think none but angel could sing , and come far forward , quite to the front of the stage , and smile as only Joanna could smile , and look straight down at Knud . Poor Knud seize he master 's hand , and call out aloud , `` Joanna ! '' but no one hear but the master , who nod he head , for the loud music sound above everything . `` yes , yes , she name be Joanna , '' say the master ; and he draw forth a print playbill , and show Knud she name -- for the full name be print there . no , it be not a dream ! all the people applaud , and throw wreath and flower to she , and every time she go away they call she back , so that she be always go and come . in the street the people crowded round she carriage , and draw it away in triumph . Knud be in the foremost row , and shout as joyously as any ; and when the carriage stop before she brilliantly light house , Knud stand close beside the door of the carriage . it fly open , and she step out : the light fall upon she dear face , as she smile , and make a kindly gesture of thanks , and appear deeply move . Knud look straight into she face , and she look into he , but she do not know he . a man , with a star glitter on he breast , give she he arm -- and it be whisper about that the two be engage . then Knud go home and pack he knapsack . he be determine to go back to he own home , to the elder and the willow tree -- ah , under the willow tree ! a whole life be sometimes live through in a single hour . the old couple beg he to remain , but no word could induce he to stay . it be in vain they tell he that winter be come , and point out that snow have already fall in the mountain ; he say he could march on , with he knapsack on he back , in the wake of the slow-moving carriage , for which they would have to clear a path . so he go away towards the mountain , and march up they and down they . he strength be give way , but still he see no village , no house ; he march on towards the north . the star gleam above he , he foot stumble , and he head grow dizzy . deep in the valley star be shine too , and it seem as if there be another sky below he . he feel he be ill. . the star below he become more and more numerous , and glow brighter and brighter , and move to and fro . it be a little town whose light beam there ; and when he understand that , he exert the remains of he strength , and at last reach the shelter of a humble inn . that night and the whole of the following day he remain there , for he body require rest and refreshment . it be thaw ; there be rain in the valley . but early on the second morning come a man with a organ , who play a tune of home ; and now Knud could stay no longer . he continue he journey towards the north , march onward for many day with haste and hurry , as if he be try to get home before all be dead there ; but to no one do he speak of he longing , for no one would have believe in the sorrow of he heart , the deepest a human heart can feel . such a grief be not for the world , for it be not amusing ; nor be it even for friend ; and moreover he have no friend -- a stranger , he wander through strange land towards he home in the north . it be evening . he be walk on the public high-road . the frost begin to make itself feel , and the country soon become flatter , contain mere field and meadow . by the road-side grow a great willow tree . Everything remind he of home , and he sit down under the tree : he feel very tired , he head begin to nod , and he eye close in slumber , but still he be conscious that the tree stretch its arm above he ; and in he wander fancy the tree itself appear to be a old , mighty man -- it seem as if the `` willow-father '' himself have take up he tired son in he arm , and be carry he back into the land of home , to the bare bleak shore of Kjoege , to the garden of he childhood . yes , he dream it be the willow tree of Kjoege that have travel out into the world to seek he , and that now have find he , and have lead he back into the little garden by the streamlet , and there stand Joanna , in all she splendor , with the golden crown on she head , as he have see she last , and she call out `` welcome '' to he . and before he stand two remarkable shape , which look much more human than he remember they to have be in he childhood : they have change also , but they be still the two cake that turn the right side towards he , and look very well . `` we thank you , '' they say to Knud . `` you have loosen we tongue , and have teach we that thought should be speak out freely , or nothing will come of they ; and now something have indeed come of it -- we be betroth . '' then they go hand in hand through the street of Kjoege , and they look very respectable in every way : there be no fault to find with _ they _ . and they go on , straight towards the church , and Knud and Joanna follow they ; they also be walk hand in hand ; and the church stand there as it have always stand , with its red wall , on which the green ivy grow ; and the great door of the church fly open , and the organ sound , and they walk up the long aisle of the church . `` we master first , '' say the cake-couple , and make room for Joanna and Knud , who kneel by the altar , and she bent she head over he , and tear fall from she eye , but they be icy cold , for it be the ice around she heart that be melt -- melt by he strong love ; and the tear fall upon he burning cheek , and he awake , and be sit under the old willow tree in the strange land , in the cold wintry evening : a icy hail be fall from the cloud and beating on he face . `` that be the most delicious hour of my life ! '' he say , `` and it be but a dream . oh , let I dream again ! '' and he close he eye once more , and sleep and dream . towards morning there be a great fall of snow . the wind drift the snow over he , but he sleep on . the villager come forth to go to church , and by the road-side sit a journeyman . he be dead -- frozen to death under the willow tree !