what the moon saw . H. C. Andersen it be a strange thing , that when I feel most fervently and most deeply , my hand and my tongue seem alike tie , so that I can not rightly describe or accurately portray the thought that be rise within I ; and yet I be a painter : my eye tell I as much as that , and all my friend who have see my sketch and fancy say the same . I be a poor lad , and live in one of the narrowest of lane ; but I do not want for light , as my room be high up in the house , with a extensive prospect over the neighbouring roof . during the first few day I go to live in the town , I feel low-spirited and solitary enough . instead of the forest and the green hill of former day , I have here only a forest of chimney-pots to look out upon . and then I have not a single friend ; not one familiar face greet I . so one evening I sit at the window , in a desponding mood ; and presently I open the casement and look out . oh , how my heart leap up with joy ! here be a well-known face at last -- a round , friendly countenance , the face of a good friend I have know at home . in , fact it be the moon that look in upon I . he be quite unchanged , the dear old Moon , and have the same face exactly that he use to show when he peer down upon I through the willow tree on the moor . I kiss my hand to he over and over again , as he shine far into my little room ; and he , for he part , promise I that every evening , when he come abroad , he would look in upon I for a few moment . this promise he have faithfully keep . it be a pity that he can only stay such a short time when he come . Whenever he appear , he tell I of one thing or another that he have see on the previous night , or on that same evening . `` just paint the scene I describe to you '' -- this be what he say to I -- `` and you will have a very pretty picture-book . '' I have follow he injunction for many evening . I could make up a new `` Thousand and one NightsS , '' in my own way , out of these picture , but the number might be too great , after all . the picture I have here give have not be choose at random , but follow in they proper order , just as they be describe to I . some great gifted painter , or some poet or musician , may make something more of they if he like ; what I have give here be only hasty sketch , hurriedly put upon the paper , with some of my own thought intersperse ; for the Moon do not come to I every evening -- a cloud sometimes hide he face from I .