A CHRISTMAS TALE . H. C. Andersen In the forest , high up on the steep shore , hard by the open sea coast , stood a very old oak tree . It was exactly three hundred and sixty-five years old , but that long time was not more for the tree than just as many days would be to us men . We wake by day and sleep through the night , and then we have our dreams : it is different with the tree , which keeps awake through three seasons of the year , and does not get its sleep till winter comes . Winter is its time for rest , its night after the long day which is called spring , summer , and autumn . On many a warm summer day the Ephemera , the fly that lives but for a day , had danced around his crown -- had lived , enjoyed , and felt happy ; and then rested for a moment in quiet bliss the tiny creature , on one of the great fresh oak leaves ; and then the tree always said : `` Poor little thing ! Your whole life is but a single day ! How very short ! It 's quite melancholy ! '' `` Melancholy ! Why do you say that ? '' the Ephemera would then always reply . `` It 's wonderfully bright , warm , and beautiful all around me , and that makes me rejoice ! '' `` But only one day , and then it 's all done ! '' `` Done ! '' repeated the Ephemera . `` What 's the meaning of _ done _ ? Are you _ done _ , too ? '' `` No ; I shall perhaps live for thousands of your days , and my day is whole seasons long ! It 's something so long , that you ca n't at all manage to reckon it out . '' `` No ? then I do n't understand you . You say you have thousands of my days ; but I have thousands of moments , in which I can be merry and happy . Does all the beauty of this world cease when you die ? '' `` No , '' replied the Tree ; `` it will certainly last much longer -- far longer than I can possibly think . '' `` Well , then , we have the same time , only that we reckon differently . '' And the Ephemera danced and floated in the air , and rejoiced in her delicate wings of gauze and velvet , and rejoiced in the balmy breezes laden with the fragrance of meadows and of wild roses and elder-flowers , of the garden hedges , wild thyme , and mint , and daisies ; the scent of these was all so strong that the Ephemera was almost intoxicated . The day was long and beautiful , full of joy and of sweet feeling , and when the sun sank low the little fly felt very agreeably tired of all its happiness and enjoyment . The delicate wings would not carry it any more , and quietly and slowly it glided down upon the soft grass blade , nodded its head as well as it could nod , and went quietly to sleep -- and was dead . `` Poor little Ephemera ! '' said the Oak . `` That was a terribly short life ! '' And on every summer day the same dance was repeated , the same question and answer , and the same sleep . The same thing was repeated through whole generations of ephemera , and all of them felt equally merry and equally happy . The Oak stood there awake through the spring morning , the noon of summer , and the evening of autumn ; and its time of rest , its night , was coming on apace . Winter was approaching . Already the storms were singing their `` good night , good night ! '' Here fell a leaf , and there fell a leaf . `` We 'll rock you , and dandle you ! Go to sleep , go to sleep ! We sing you to sleep , we shake you to sleep , but it does you good in your old twigs , does it not ? They seem to crack for very joy ! Sleep sweetly , sleep sweetly ! It 's your three hundred and sixty-fifth night . Properly speaking , you 're only a stripling as yet ! Sleep sweetly ! The clouds strew down snow , there will be quite a coverlet , warm and protecting , around your feet . Sweet sleep to you , and pleasant dreams ! '' And the Oak Tree stood there , denuded of all its leaves , to sleep through the long winter , and to dream many a dream , always about something that had happened to it , just as in the dreams of men . The great Oak had once been small -- indeed , an acorn had been its cradle . According to human computation , it was now in its fourth century . It was the greatest and best tree in the forest ; its crown towered far above all the other trees , and could be descried from afar across the sea , so that it served as a landmark to the sailors : the tree had no idea how many eyes were in the habit of seeking it . High up in its green summit the wood-pigeon built her nest , and the cuckoo sat in its boughs , and sang his song ; and in autumn , when the leaves looked like thin plates of copper , the birds of passage came and rested there , before they flew away across the sea ; but now it was winter , and the tree stood there leafless , so that every one could see how gnarled and crooked the branches were that shot forth from its trunk . Crows and rooks came and took their seat by turns in the boughs , and spoke of the hard times which were beginning , and of the difficulty of getting a living in winter . It was just at the holy Christmas time , when the tree dreamed its most glorious dream . The tree had a distinct feeling of the festive time , and fancied he heard the bells ringing from the churches all around ; and yet it seemed as if it were a fine summer 's day , mild and warm . Fresh and green he spread out his mighty crown ; the sunbeams played among the twigs and the leaves ; the air was full of the fragrance of herbs and blossoms ; gay butterflies chased each other to and fro . The ephemeral insects danced as if all the world were created merely for them to dance and be merry in . All that the tree had experienced for years and years , and that had happened around him , seemed to pass by him again , as in a festive pageant . He saw the knights of ancient days ride by with their noble dames on gallant steeds , with plumes waving in their bonnets and falcons on their wrists . The hunting horn sounded , and the dogs barked . He saw hostile warriors in colored jerkins and with shining weapons , with spear and halbert , pitching their tents and striking them again . The watch-fires flamed up anew , and men sang and slept under the branches of the tree . He saw loving couples meeting near his trunk , happily , in the moonshine ; and they cut the initials of their names in the grey-green bark of his stem . Once -- but long years had rolled by since then -- citherns and AEolian harps had been hung up on his boughs by merry wanderers , now they hung there again , and once again they sounded in tones of marvellous sweetness . The wood-pigeons cooed , as if they were telling what the tree felt in all this , and the cuckoo called out to tell him how many summer days he had yet to live . Then it appeared to him as if new life were rippling down into the remotest fiber of his root , and mounting up into his highest branches , to the tops of the leaves . The tree felt that he was stretching and spreading himself , and through his root he felt that there was life and motion even in the ground itself . He felt his strength increase , he grew higher , his stem shot up unceasingly , and he grew more and more , his crown became fuller , and spread out ; and in proportion as the tree grew , he felt his happiness increase , and his joyous hope that he should reach even higher -- quite up to the warm brilliant sun . -LRB-B- Illustration : THE LOVERS AT THE OLD OAK TREE . aaaaa -RRB-B- aaa Already had he grown high above the clouds , which floated past beneath his crown like dark troops of passage-birds , or like great white swans . And every leaf of the tree had the gift of sight , as if it had eyes wherewith to see ; the stars became visible in broad daylight , great and sparkling ; each of them sparkled like a pair of eyes , mild and clear . They recalled to his memory well-known gentle eyes , eyes of children , eyes of lovers who had met beneath his boughs . It was a marvellous spectacle , and one full of happiness and joy ! And yet amid all this happiness the tree felt a longing , a yearning desire that all other trees of the wood beneath him , and all the bushes , and herbs , and flowers , might be able to rise with him , that they too might see this splendor , and experience this joy . The great majestic oak was not quite happy in his happiness , while he had not them all , great and little , about him ; and this feeling of yearning trembled through his every twig , through his every leaf , warmly and fervently as through a human heart . The crown of the tree waved to and fro , as if he sought something in his silent longing , and he looked down . Then he felt the fragrance of thyme , and soon afterwards the more powerful scent of honeysuckle and violets ; and he fancied he heard the cuckoo answering him . Yes , through the clouds the green summits of the forest came peering up , and under himself the Oak saw the other trees , as they grew and raised themselves aloft . Bushes and herbs shot up high , and some tore themselves up bodily by the roots to rise the quicker . The birch was the quickest of all . Like a white streak of lightning , its slender stem shot upwards in a zigzag line , and the branches spread around it like green gauze and like banners ; the whole woodland natives , even to the brown plumed rushes , grew up with the rest , and the birds came too , and sang ; and on the grass blade that fluttered aloft like a long silken ribbon into the air , sat the grasshopper cleaning his wings with his leg ; the May beetles hummed , and the bees murmured , and every bird sang in his appointed manner ; all was song and sound of gladness up into the high heaven . `` But the little blue flower by the water-side , where is that ? '' said the Oak ; `` and the purple bell-flower and the daisy ? '' for , you see , the old Oak Tree wanted to have them all about him . `` We are here -- we are here ! '' was shouted and sung in reply . `` But the beautiful thyme of last summer -- and in the last year there was certainly a place here covered with lilies of the valley ! and the wild apple tree that blossomed so splendidly ! and all the glory of the wood that came year by year -- if that had only just been born , it might have been here now ! '' `` We are here , we are here ! '' replied voices still higher in the air . It seemed as if they had flown on before . `` Why , that is beautiful , indescribably beautiful ! '' exclaimed the old Oak Tree , rejoicingly . `` I have them all around me , great and small ; not one has been forgotten ! How can so much happiness be imagined ? How can it be possible ? '' `` In heaven , in the better land , it can be imagined , and it is possible ! '' the reply sounded through the air . And the old tree , who grew on and on , felt how his roots were tearing themselves free from the ground . `` That 's right , that 's better than all ! '' said the tree . `` Now no fetters hold me ! I can fly up now , to the very highest , in glory and in light ! And all my beloved ones are with me , great and small -- all of them , all ! '' That was the dream of the old Oak Tree ; and while he dreamt thus a mighty storm came rushing over land and sea -- at the holy Christmas tide . The sea rolled great billows towards the shore ; there was a cracking and crashing in the tree -- his root was torn out of the ground in the very moment while he was dreaming that his root freed itself from the earth . He fell . His three hundred and sixty-five years were now as the single day of the Ephemera . On the morning of the Christmas festival , when the sun rose , the storm had subsided . From all the churches sounded the festive bells , and from every hearth , even from the smallest hut , arose the smoke in blue clouds , like the smoke from the altars of the druids of old at the feast of thanks offerings . The sea became gradually calm , and on board a great ship in the offing , that had fought successfully with the tempest , all the flags were displayed , as a token of joy suitable to the festive day . `` The tree is down -- the old Oak Tree , our landmark on the coast ! '' said the sailors . `` It fell in the storm of last night . Who can replace it ? No one can . '' This was the funeral oration , short but well meant , that was given to the tree , which lay stretched on the snowy covering on the sea shore ; and over its prostrate form sounded the notes of a song from the ship , a carol of the joys of Christmas , and of the redemption of the soul of man by His blood , and of eternal life . `` Sing , sing aloud , this blessed morn -- It is fulfilled -- and He is born , Oh , joy without compare ! Hallelujah ! Hallelujah ! '' Thus sounded the old psalm tune , and every one on board the ship felt lifted up in his own way , through the song and the prayer , just as the old tree had felt lifted up in its last , its most beauteous dream in the Christmas night .