EVERYTHING IN ITS RIGHT PLACE . H. C. Andersen It is more than a hundred years ago . Behind the wood , by the great lake , stood the old baronial mansion . Round about it lay a deep moat , in which grew reeds and grass . Close by the bridge , near the entrance-gate , rose an old willow tree that bent over the reeds . Up from the hollow lane sounded the clang of horns and the trampling of horses ; therefore the little girl who kept the geese hastened to drive her charges away from the bridge , before the hunting company should come gallopping up . They drew near with such speed that the girl was obliged to climb up in a hurry , and perch herself on the coping-stone of the bridge , lest she should be ridden down . She was still half a child , and had a pretty light figure , and a gentle expression in her face , with two clear blue eyes . The noble baron took no note of this , but as he gallopped past the little goose-herd , he reversed the whip he held in his hand , and in rough sport gave her such a push in the chest with the butt-end , that she fell backwards into the ditch . `` Everything in its place , '' he cried ; `` into the puddle with you ! '' And he laughed aloud , for this was intended for wit , and the company joined in his mirth : the whole party shouted and clamoured , and the dogs barked their loudest . Fortunately for herself , the poor girl in falling seized one of the hanging branches of the willow tree , by means of which she kept herself suspended over the muddy water , and as soon as the baron and his company had disappeared through the castle-gate , the girl tried to scramble up again ; but the bough broke off at the top , and she would have fallen backward among the reeds , if a strong hand from above had not at that moment seized her . It was the hand of a pedlar , who had seen from a short distance what had happened , and who now hurried up to give aid . `` Everything in its right place , '' he said , mimicking the gracious baron ; and he drew the little maiden up to the firm ground . He would have restored the broken branch to the place from which it had been torn , but `` everything in its place '' can not always be managed , and therefore he stuck the piece in the ground . `` Grow and prosper till you can furnish a good flute for them up yonder , '' he said ; for he would have liked to play the `` rogue 's march '' for my lord the baron , and my lord 's whole family . And then he betook himself to the castle , but not into the ancestral hall , he was too humble for that ! He went to the servants ' quarters , and the men and maids turned over his stock of goods , and bargained with him ; and from above , where the guests were at table , came a sound of roaring and screaming that was intended for song , and indeed they did their best . Loud laughter , mingled with the barking and howling of dogs , sounded through the windows , for there was feasting and carousing up yonder . Wine and strong old ale foamed in the jugs and glasses , and the dogs sat with their masters and dined with them . They had the pedlar summoned upstairs , but only to make fun of him . The wine had mounted into their heads , and the sense had flown out . They poured wine into a stocking , that the pedlar might drink with them , but that he must drink quickly ; that was considered a rare jest , and was a cause of fresh laughter . And then whole farms , with oxen and peasants too , were staked on a card , and won and lost . `` Everything in its right place ! '' said the pedlar , when he had at last made his escape out of what he called `` the Sodom and Gomorrah up yonder . '' `` The open high-road is my right place , '' he said ; `` I did not feel at all happy there . '' And the little maiden who sat keeping the geese nodded at him in a friendly way , as he strode along beside the hedges . And days and weeks went by ; and it became manifest that the willow branch which the pedlar had stuck into the ground by the castle moat remained fresh and green , and even brought forth new twigs . The little goose-girl saw that the branch must have taken root , and rejoiced greatly at the circumstance ; for this tree , she said , was now her tree . The tree certainly came forward well ; but everything else belonging to the castle went very rapidly back , what with feasting and gambling -- for these two things are like wheels , upon which no man can stand securely . Six years had not passed away before the noble lord passed out of the castle-gate , a beggared man , and the mansion was bought by a rich dealer ; and this purchaser was the very man who had once been made a jest of there , for whom wine had been poured into a stocking ; but honesty and industry are good winds to speed a vessel ; and now the dealer was possessor of the baronial estate . But from that hour no more card-playing was permitted there . `` That is bad reading , '' said he : `` when the Evil One saw a Bible for the first time , he wanted to put a bad book against it , and invented card-playing . '' The new proprietor took a wife ; and who might that be but the goose-girl , who had always been faithful and good , and looked as beautiful and fine in her new clothes as if she had been born a great lady . And how did all this come about ? That is too long a story for our busy time , but it really happened , and the most important part is to come . It was a good thing now to be in the old mansion . The mother managed the domestic affairs , and the father superintended the estate , and it seemed as if blessings were streaming down . Where rectitude enters in , prosperity is sure to follow . The old house was cleaned and painted , the ditches were cleared and fruit trees planted . Everything wore a bright cheerful look , and the floors were as polished as a draught board . In the long winter evenings the lady sat at the spinning-wheel with her maids , and every Sunday evening there was a reading from the Bible , by the Councillor of Justice himself -- this title the dealer had gained , though it was only in his old age . The children grew up -- for children had come -- and they received the best education , though all had not equal abilities , as we find indeed in all families . In the meantime the willow branch at the castle-gate had grown to be a splendid tree , which stood there free and self-sustained . `` That is our genealogical tree , '' the old people said , and the tree was to be honored and respected -- so they told all the children , even those who had not very good heads . And a hundred years rolled by . It was in our own time . The lake had been converted to moorland , and the old mansion had almost disappeared . A pool of water and the ruins of some walls , this was all that was left of the old baronial castle , with its deep moat ; and here stood also a magnificent old willow , with pendent boughs , which seemed to show how beautiful a tree may be if left to itself . The main stem was certainly split from the root to the crown , and the storm had bowed the noble tree a little ; but it stood firm for all that , and from every cleft into which wind and weather had carried a portion of earth , grasses and flowers sprang forth : especially near the top , where the great branches parted , a sort of hanging garden had been formed of wild raspberry bush , and even a small quantity of mistletoe had taken root , and stood , slender and graceful , in the midst of the old willow which was mirrored in the dark water . A field-path led close by the old tree . High by the forest hill , with a splendid prospect in every direction , stood the new baronial hall , large and magnificent , with panes of glass so clearly transparent , that it looked as if there were no panes there at all . The grand flight of steps that led to the entrance looked like a bower of roses and broad-leaved plants . The lawn was as freshly green as if each separate blade of grass were cleaned morning and evening . In the hall hung costly pictures ; silken chairs and sofas stood there , so easy that they looked almost as if they could run by themselves ; there were tables of great marble slabs , and books bound in morocco and gold . Yes , truly , wealthy people lived here , people of rank : the baron with his family . All things here corresponded with each other . The motto was still `` Everything in its right place ; '' and therefore all the pictures which had been put up in the old house for honor and glory , hung now in the passage that led to the servants ' hall : they were considered as old lumber , and especially two old portraits , one representing a man in a pink coat and powdered wig , the other a lady with powdered hair and holding a rose in her hand , and each surrounded with a wreath of willow leaves . These two pictures were pierced with many holes , because the little barons were in the habit of setting up the old people as a mark for their cross-bows . The pictures represented the Councillor of Justice and his lady , the founders of the present family . `` But they did not properly belong to our family , '' said one of the little barons . `` He was a dealer , and she had kept the geese . They were not like papa and mamma . '' The pictures were pronounced to be worthless ; and as the motto was `` Everything in its right place , '' the great-grandmother and great-grandfather had been sent into the passage that led to the servants ' hall . The son of the neighbouring clergyman was tutor in the great house . One day he was out walking with his pupils , the little barons and their eldest sister , who had just been confirmed ; they came along the field-path , past the old willow , and as they walked on the young lady bound a wreath of field flowers , `` Everything in its right place , '' and the flowers formed a pretty whole . At the same time she heard every word that was spoken , and she liked to hear the clergyman 's son talk of the power of nature and of the great men and women in history . She had a good hearty disposition , with true nobility of thought and soul , and a heart full of love for all that God hath created . The party came to a halt at the old willow tree . The youngest baron insisted on having such a flute cut for him from it as he had had made of other willows . Accordingly the tutor broke off a branch . `` Oh , do n't do that ! '' cried the young baroness ; but it was done already . `` That is our famous old tree , '' she continued , `` and I love it dearly . They laugh at me at home for this , but I do n't mind . There is a story attached to this tree . '' And she told what we all know about the tree , about the old mansion , the pedlar and the goose-girl , who had met for the first time in this spot , and had afterwards become the founders of the noble family to which the young barons belonged . `` They would not be ennobled , the good old folks ! '' she said . `` They kept to the motto ` Everything in its right place ; ' and accordingly they thought it would be out of place for them to purchase a title with money . My grandfather , the first baron , was their son : he is said to have been a very learned man , very popular with princes and princesses , and a frequent guest at the court festivals . The others at home love him best ; but , I do n't know how , there seems to me something about that first pair that draws my heart towards them . How comfortable , how patriarchal it must have been in the old house , where the mistress sat at the spinning-wheel among her maids , and the old master read aloud from the Bible ! '' `` They were charming , sensible people , '' said the clergyman 's son ; and with this the conversation naturally fell upon nobles and citizens . The young man scarcely seemed to belong to the citizen class , so well did he speak concerning the purpose and meaning of nobility . He said , `` It is a great thing to belong to a family that has distinguished itself , and thus to have , as it were , in one 's blood , a spur that urges one on to make progress in all that is good . It is delightful to have a name that serves as a card of admission into the highest circles . Nobility means that which is great and noble : it is a coin that has received a stamp to indicate what it is worth . It is the fallacy of the time , and many poets have frequently maintained this fallacy , that nobility of birth is accompanied by foolishness , and that the lower you go among the poor , the more does everything around shine . But that is not my view , for I consider it entirely false . In the higher classes many beautiful and kindly traits are found . My mother told me one of this kind , and I could tell you many others . `` My mother was on a visit to a great family in town . My grandmother , I think , had been housekeeper to the count 's mother . The great nobleman and my mother were alone in the room , when the former noticed that an old woman came limping on crutches into the courtyard . Indeed , she was accustomed to come every Sunday , and carry away a gift with her . ` Ah , there is the poor old lady , ' said the nobleman : ` walking is a great toil to her ; ' and before my mother understood what he meant , he had gone out of the room and run down the stairs , to save the old woman the toilsome walk , by carrying to her the gift she had come to receive . `` Now , that was only a small circumstance , but , like the widow 's two mites in the Scripture , it has a sound that finds an echo in the depths of the heart in human nature ; and these are the things the poet should show and point out ; especially in these times should he sing of it , for that does good , and pacifies and unites men . But where a bit of mortality , because it has a genealogical tree and a coat of arms , rears up like an Arabian horse , and prances in the street , and says in the room , ` People out of the street have been here , ' when a commoner has been -- that is nobility in decay , and become a mere mask -- a mask of the kind that Thespis created ; and people are glad when such an one is turned into satire . '' This was the speech of the clergyman 's son . It was certainly rather long , but then the flute was being finished while he made it . At the castle there was a great company . Many guests came from the neighborhood and from the capital . Many ladies , some tastefully , and others tastelessly dressed , were there , and the great hall was quite full of people . The clergymen from the neighborhood stood respectfully congregated in a corner , which made it look almost as if there were to be a burial there . But it was not so , for this was a party of pleasure , only that the pleasure had not yet begun . A great concert was to be performed , and consequently the little baron had brought in his willow flute ; but he could not get a note out of it , nor could his papa , and therefore the flute was worth nothing . There was instrumental music and song , both of the kind that delight the performers most -- quite charming ! `` You are a performer ? '' said a cavalier -- his father 's son and nothing else -- to the tutor . `` You play the flute and make it too -- that 's genius . That should command , and should have the place of honor ! '' `` No indeed , '' replied the young man , `` I only advance with the times , as every one is obliged to do . '' `` Oh , you will enchant us with the little instrument , will you not ? '' And with these words he handed to the clergyman 's son the flute cut from the willow tree by the pool , and announced aloud that the tutor was about to perform a solo on that instrument . Now , they only wanted to make fun of him , that was easily seen ; and therefore the tutor would not play , though indeed he could do so very well ; but they crowded round him and importuned him so strongly , that at last he took the flute and put it to his lips . That was a wonderful flute ! A sound , as sustained as that which is emitted by the whistle of a steam engine , and much stronger , echoed far over courtyard , garden , and wood , miles away into the country ; and simultaneously with the tone came a rushing wind that roared , `` Everything in its right place ! '' And papa flew as if carried by the wind straight out of the hall and into the shepherd 's cot ; and the shepherd flew , not into the hall , for there he could not come -- no , but into the room of the servants , among the smart lacqueys who strutted about there in silk stockings ; and the proud servants were struck motionless with horror at the thought that such a personage dared to sit down to table with them . But in the hall the young baroness flew up to the place of honor at the top of the table , where she was worthy to sit ; and the young clergyman 's son had a seat next to her ; and there the two sat as if they were a newly-married pair . An old count of one of the most ancient families in the country remained untouched in his place of honor ; for the flute was just , as men ought to be . The witty cavalier , the son of his father and nothing else , who had been the cause of the flute-playing , flew head-over-heels into the poultry-house -- but not alone . For a whole mile round about the sounds of the flute were heard , and singular events took place . A rich banker 's family , driving along in a coach and four , was blown quite out of the carriage , and could not even find a place on the footboard at the back . Two rich peasants who in our times had grown too high for their corn-fields , were tumbled into the ditch . It was a dangerous flute , that : luckily , it burst at the first note , and that was a good thing , for then it was put back into the owner 's pocket . `` Everything in its right place . '' The day afterwards not a word was said about this marvellous event ; and thence has come the expression `` pocketing the flute . '' Everything was in its usual order , only that the two old portraits of the dealer and the goose-girl hung on the wall in the banqueting hall . They had been blown up yonder , and as one of the real connoisseurs said they had been painted by a master 's hand , they remained where they were , and were restored . `` Everything in its right place . '' And to that it will come ; for _ hereafter _ is long -- longer than this story .