IB AND CHRISTINE . H. C. Andersen Not far from the clear stream Gudenau , in North Jutland , in the forest which extends by its banks and far into the country , a great ridge of land rises and stretches along like a wall through the wood . By this ridge , westward , stands a farmhouse , surrounded by poor land ; the sandy soil is seen through the spare rye and wheat-ears that grow upon it . Some years have elapsed since the time of which we speak . The people who lived here cultivated the fields , and moreover kept three sheep , a pig , and two oxen ; in fact , they supported themselves quite comfortably , for they had enough to live on if they took things as they came . Indeed , they could have managed to save enough to keep two horses ; but , like the other peasants of the neighborhood , they said , `` The horse eats itself up '' -- that is to say , it eats as much as it earns . Jeppe-Jaens cultivated his field in summer . In the winter he made wooden shoes , and then he had an assistant , a journeyman , who understood as well as he himself did how to make the wooden shoes strong , and light , and graceful . They carved shoes and spoons , and that brought in money . It would have been wronging the Jeppe-Jaenses to call them poor people . Little Ib , a boy seven years old , the only child of the family , would sit by , looking at the workmen , cutting at a stick , and occasionally cutting his finger . But one day Ib succeeded so well with two pieces of wood , that they really looked like little wooden shoes ; and these he wanted to give to little Christine . And who was little Christine ? She was the boatman 's daughter , and was graceful and delicate as a gentleman 's child ; had she been differently dressed , no one would have imagined that she came out of the hut on the neighbouring heath . There lived her father , who was a widower , and supported himself by carrying firewood in his great boat out of the forest to the estate of Silkeborg , with its great eel-pond and eel-weir , and sometimes even to the distant little town of Randers . He had no one who could take care of little Christine , and therefore the child was almost always with him in his boat , or in the forest among the heath plants and barberry bushes . Sometimes , when he had to go as far as the town , he would bring little Christine , who was a year younger than Ib , to stay at the Jeppe-Jaenses . Ib and Christine agreed very well in every particular : they divided their bread and berries when they were hungry , they dug in the ground together for treasures , and they ran , and crept , and played about everywhere . And one day they ventured together up the high ridge , and a long way into the forest ; once they found a few snipes ' eggs there , and that was a great event for them . Ib had never been on the heath where Christine 's father lived , nor had he ever been on the river . But even this was to happen ; for Christine 's father once invited him to go with them ; and on the evening before the excursion , he followed the boatman over the heath to the house of the latter . Next morning early , the two children were sitting high up on the pile of firewood in the boat , eating bread and whistleberries . Christine 's father and his assistant propelled the boat with staves . They had the current with them , and swiftly they glided down the stream , through the lakes it forms in its course , and which sometimes seemed shut in by reeds and water plants , though there was always room for them to pass , and though the old trees bent quite forward over the water , and the old oaks bent down their bare branches , as if they had turned up their sleeves and wanted to show their knotty naked arms . Old alder trees , which the stream had washed away from the bank , clung with their fibrous roots to the bottom of the stream , and looked like little wooded islands . The water-lilies rocked themselves on the river . It was a splendid excursion ; and at last they came to the great eel-weir , where the water rushed through the flood-gates ; and Ib and Christine thought this was beautiful to behold . In those days there was no manufactory there , nor was there any town ; only the old great farmyard , with its scanty fields , with few servants and a few head of cattle , could be seen there ; and the rushing of the water through the weir and the cry of the wild ducks were the only signs of life in Silkeborg . After the firewood had been unloaded , the father of Christine bought a whole bundle of eels and a slaughtered sucking-pig , and all was put into a basket and placed in the stern of the boat . Then they went back again up the stream ; but the wind was favourable , and when the sails were hoisted , it was as good as if two horses had been harnessed to the boat . When they had arrived at a point in the stream where the assistant-boatman dwelt , a little way from the bank , the boat was moored , and the two men landed , after exhorting the children to sit still . But the children did not do that ; or at least they obeyed only for a very short time . They must be peeping into the basket in which the eels and the sucking-pig had been placed , and they must needs pull the sucking-pig out , and take it in their hands , and feel and touch it all over ; and as both wanted to hold it at the same time , it came to pass that they let it fall into the water , and the sucking-pig drifted away with the stream -- and here was a terrible event ! Ib jumped ashore , and ran a little distance along the bank , and Christine sprang after him . `` Take me with you ! '' she cried . And in a few minutes they were deep in the thicket , and could no longer see either the boat or the bank . They ran on a little farther , and then Christine fell down on the ground and began to cry ; but Ib picked her up . `` Follow me ! '' he cried . `` Yonder lies the house . '' But the house was not yonder . They wandered on and on , over the dry , rustling , last year 's leaves , and over fallen branches that crackled beneath their feet . Soon they heard a loud piercing scream . They stood still and listened , and presently the scream of an eagle sounded through the wood . It was an ugly scream , and they were frightened at it ; but before them , in the thick wood , the most beautiful blueberries grew in wonderful profusion . They were so inviting , that the children could not do otherwise than stop ; and they lingered for some time , eating the blueberries till they had quite blue mouths and blue cheeks . Now again they heard the cry they had heard before . `` We shall get into trouble about the pig , '' said Christine . `` Come , let us go to our house , '' said Ib ; `` it is here in the wood . '' -LRB-B- Illustration : IB AND CHRISTINE MEET THE GIPSY . aaaaa -RRB-B- aaa And they went forward . They presently came to a wood , but it did not lead them home ; and darkness came on , and they were afraid . The wonderful stillness that reigned around was interrupted now and then by the shrill cries of the great horrid owl and of the birds that were strange to them . At last they both lost themselves in a thicket . Christine cried , and Ib cried too ; and after they had bemoaned themselves for a time , they threw themselves down on the dry leaves , and went fast asleep . The sun was high in the heavens when the two children awoke . They were cold ; but in the neighborhood of this resting-place , on the hill , the sun shone through the trees , and there they thought they would warm themselves ; and from there Ib fancied they would be able to see his parents ' house . But they were far away from the house in question , in quite another part of the forest . They clambered to the top of the rising ground , and found themselves on the summit of a slope running down to the margin of a transparent lake . They could see fish in great numbers in the pure water illumined by the sun 's rays . This spectacle was quite a sudden surprise for them ; but close beside them grew a nut bush covered with the finest nuts ; and now they picked the nuts , and cracked them , and ate the delicate young kernels , which had only just become perfect . But there was another surprise and another fright in store for them . Out of the thicket stepped a tall old woman ; her face was quite brown , and her hair was deep black and shining . The whites of her eyes gleamed like a negro 's ; on her back she carried a bundle , and in her hand she bore a knotted stick . She was a gipsy . The children did not at once understand what she said . She brought three nuts out of her pocket , and told them that in these nuts the most beautiful , the loveliest things were hidden ; for they were wishing-nuts . Ib looked at her , and she seemed so friendly , that he plucked up courage and asked her if she would give him the nuts ; and the woman gave them to him , and gathered some more for herself , a whole pocketful , from the nut bush . And Ib and Christine looked at the wishing-nuts with great eyes . `` Is there a carriage with a pair of horses in this nut ? '' he asked . `` Yes , there 's a golden carriage with two horses , '' answered the woman . `` Then give me the nut , '' said little Christine . And Ib gave it to her , and the strange woman tied it in her pocket-handkerchief for her . `` Is there in this nut a pretty little neckerchief , like the one Christine wears round her neck ? '' inquired Ib . `` There are ten neckerchiefs in it , '' answered the woman . `` There are beautiful dresses in it , and stockings , and a hat with a veil . '' `` Then I will have that one too , '' cried little Christine . And Ib gave her the second nut also . The third was a little black thing . `` That one you can keep , '' said Christine ; `` and it is a pretty one too . '' `` What is in it ? '' inquired Ib . `` The best of all things for you , '' replied the gipsy-woman . And Ib held the nut very tight . The woman promised to lead the children into the right path , so that they might find their way home ; and now they went forward , certainly in quite a different direction from the path they should have followed . But that is no reason why we should suspect the gipsy-woman of wanting to steal the children . In the wild wood-path they met the forest bailiff , who knew Ib ; and by his help , Ib and Christine both arrived at home , where their friends had been very anxious about them . They were pardoned and forgiven , although they had indeed both deserved `` to get into trouble ; '' firstly , because they had let the sucking-pig fall into the water , and secondly , because they had run away . Christine was taken back to her father on the heath , and Ib remained in the farmhouse on the margin of the wood by the great ridge . The first thing he did in the evening was to bring forth out of his pocket the little black nut , in which `` the best thing of all '' was said to be enclosed . He placed it carefully in the crack of the door , and then shut the door so as to break the nut ; but there was not much kernel in it . The nut looked as if it were filled with tobacco or black rich earth ; it was what we call hollow , or worm-eaten . `` Yes , that 's exactly what I thought , '' said Ib . `` How could the very best thing be contained in this little nut ? And Christine will get just as little out of her two nuts , and will have neither fine clothes nor the golden carriage . '' And winter came on , and the new year began ; indeed , several years went by . Ib was at last to be confirmed ; and for this reason he went during a whole winter to the clergyman , far away in the nearest village , to prepare . About this time the boatman one day visited Ib 's parents , and told them that Christine was now going into service , and that she had been really fortunate in getting a remarkably good place , and falling into worthy hands . `` Only think , '' he said ; `` she is going to the rich innkeeper 's , in the inn at Herning , far towards the west , many miles from here . She is to assist the hostess in keeping the house ; and afterwards , if she takes to it well , and stays to be confirmed there , the people are going to adopt her as their own daughter . '' And Ib and Christine took leave of one another . People called them `` the betrothed ; '' and at parting , the girl showed Ib that she had still the two nuts which he had given her long ago , during their wanderings in the forest ; and she told him , moreover , that in a drawer she had carefully kept the little wooden shoes which he had carved as a present for her in their childish days . And thereupon they parted . Ib was confirmed . But he remained in his mother 's house , for he had become a clever maker of wooden shoes , and in summer he looked after the field . He did it all alone , for his mother kept no farm-servant , and his father had died long ago . Only seldom he got news of Christine from some passing postillion or eel-fisher . But she was well off at the rich innkeeper 's ; and after she had been confirmed , she wrote a letter to her father , and sent a kind message to Ib and his mother ; and in the letter there was mention made of certain linen garments and a fine new gown , which Christine had received as a present from her employers . This was certainly good news . Next spring , there was a knock one day at the door of our Ibis old mother , and behold , the boatman and Christine stepped into the room . She had come on a visit to spend a day : a carriage had to come from the Herning Inn to the next village , and she had taken the opportunity to see her friends once again . She looked as handsome as a real lady , and she had a pretty gown on , which had been well sewn , and made expressly for her . There she stood , in grand array , and Ib was in his working clothes . He could not utter a word : he certainly seized her hand , and held it fast in his own , and was heartily glad ; but he could not get his tongue to obey him . Christine was not embarrassed , however , for she went on talking and talking , and , moreover , kissed Ib on his mouth in the heartiest manner . `` Did you know me again directly , Ib ? '' she asked ; but even afterwards , when they were left quite by themselves , and he stood there still holding her hand in his , he could only say : `` You look quite like a real lady , and I am so uncouth . How often I have thought of you , Christine , and of the old times ! '' And arm in arm they sauntered up the great ridge , and looked across the stream towards the heath , towards the great hills overgrown with bloom . It was perfectly silent ; but by the time they parted it had grown quite clear to him that Christine must be his wife . Had they not , even in their childhood , been called the betrothed pair ? To him they seemed to be really engaged to each other , though neither of them had spoken a word on the subject . Only for a few more hours could they remain together , for Christine was obliged to go back into the next village , from whence the carriage was to start early next morning for Herning . Her father and Ib escorted her as far as the village . It was a fair moonlight evening , and when they reached their destination , and Ib still held Christine 's hand in his own , he could not make up his mind to let her go . His eyes brightened , but still the words came halting over his lips . Yet they came from the depths of his heart , when he said : `` If you have not become too grand , Christine , and if you can make up your mind to live with me in my mother 's house as my wife , we must become a wedded pair some day ; but we can wait awhile yet . '' `` Yes , let us wait for a time , Ib , '' she replied ; and he kissed her lips . `` I confide in you , Ib , '' said Christine ; `` and I think that I love you -- but I will sleep upon it . '' And with that they parted . And on the way home Ib told the boatman that he and Christine were as good as betrothed ; and the boatman declared he had always expected it would turn out so ; and he went home with Ib , and remained that night in the young man 's house ; but nothing further was said of the betrothal . A year passed by , in the course of which two letters were exchanged between Ib and Christine . The signature was prefaced by the words , `` Faithful till death ! '' One day the boatman came into Ib , and brought him a greeting from Christine . What he had further to say was brought out in somewhat hesitating fashion , but it was to the effect that Christine was almost more than prosperous , for she was a pretty girl , courted and loved . The son of the host had been home on a visit ; he was employed in the office of some great institution in Copenhagen ; and he was very much pleased with Christine , and she had taken a fancy to him : his parents were ready to give their consent , but Christine was very anxious to retain Ib 's good opinion ; `` and so she had thought of refusing this great piece of good fortune , '' said the boatman . At first Ib said not a word ; but he became as white as the wall , and slightly shook his head . Then he said slowly : `` Christine must not refuse this advantageous offer . '' `` Then do you write a few words to her , '' said the boatman . And Ib sat down to write ; but he could not manage it well : the words would not come as he wished them ; and first he altered , and then he tore up the page ; but the next morning a letter lay ready to be sent to Christine , and it contained the following words : `` I have read the letter you have sent to your father , and gather from it that you are prospering in all things , and that there is a prospect of higher fortune for you . Ask your heart , Christine , and ponder well the fate that awaits you , if you take me for your husband ; what I possess is but little . Do not think of me , or my position , but think of your own welfare . You are bound to me by no promise , and if in your heart you have given me one , I release you from it . May all treasures of happiness be poured out upon you , Christine . Heaven will console me in its own good time . `` Ever your sincere friend , `` ib '' And the letter was dispatched , and Christine duly received it . In the course of that November her banns were published in the church on the heath , and in Copenhagen , where her bridegroom lived ; and to Copenhagen she proceeded , under the protection of her future mother-in-law , because the bridegroom could not undertake the journey into Jutland on account of his various occupations . On the journey , Christine met her father in a certain village ; and here the two took leave of one another . A few words were mentioned concerning this fact , but Ib made no remark upon it : his mother said he had grown very silent of late ; indeed , he had become very pensive , and thus the three nuts came into his mind which the gipsy-woman had given him long ago , and of which he had given two to Christine . Yes , it seemed right -- they were wishing-nuts , and in one of them lay a golden carriage with two horses , and in the other very elegant clothes ; all those luxuries would now be Christine 's in the capital . Her part had thus come true . And to him , Ib , the nut had offered only black earth . The gipsy-woman had said , this was `` the best of all for him . '' Yes , it was right , that also was coming true . The black earth was the best for him . Now he understood clearly what had been the woman 's meaning . In the black earth , in the dark grave , would be the best happiness for him . And once again years passed by , not very many , but they seemed long years to Ib . The old innkeeper and his wife died , one after the other ; the whole of their property , many thousands of dollars , came to the son . Yes , now Christine could have the golden carriage , and plenty of fine clothes . During the two long years that followed no letter came from Christine ; and when her father at length received one from her , it was not written in prosperity , by any means . Poor Christine ! neither she nor her husband had understood how to keep the money together ; and there seemed to be no blessing with it , because they had not sought it . And again the weather bloomed and faded . The winter had swept for many years across the heath , and over the ridge beneath which Ib dwelt , sheltered from the rough winds . The spring sun shone bright , and Ib guided the plough across his field , when one day it glided over what appeared to be a fire stone . Something like a great black ship came out of the ground , and when Ib took it up it proved to be a piece of metal ; and the place from which the plough had cut the stone gleamed brightly with ore. . It was a great golden armlet of ancient workmanship that he had found . He had disturbed a `` Hun 's Grave , '' and discovered the costly treasure buried in it . Ib showed what he had found to the clergyman , who explained its value to him , and then he betook himself to the local judges , who reported the discovery to the keeper of the museum , and recommended Ib to deliver up the treasure in person . `` You have found in the earth the best thing you could find , '' said the judge . `` The best thing ! '' thought Ib . `` The very best thing for me , and found in the earth ! Well , if that is the best , the gipsy-woman was correct in what she prophesied to me . '' So Ib traveled with the ferry-boat from Aarhus to Copenhagen . To him , who had but once or twice passed beyond the river that rolled by his home , this seemed like a voyage across the ocean . And he arrived in Copenhagen . The value of the gold he had found was paid over to him ; it was a large sum -- six hundred dollars . And Ib of the heath wandered about in the great capital . On the day on which he had settled to go back with the captain , Ib lost his way in the streets , and took quite a different direction from the one he intended to follow . He had wandered into the suburb of Christianhaven , into a poor little street . Not a human being was to be seen . At last a very little girl came out of one of the wretched houses . Ib inquired of the little one the way to the street which he wanted ; but she looked shyly at him , and began to cry bitterly . He asked her what ailed her , but could not understand what she said in reply . But as they went along the street together , they passed beneath the light of a lamp ; and when the light fell on the girl 's face , he felt a strange and sharp emotion , for Christine stood bodily before him , just as he remembered her from the days of his childhood . And he went with the little maiden into the wretched house , and ascended the narrow , crazy staircase , which led to a little attic chamber in the roof . The air in this chamber was heavy and almost suffocating : no light was burning ; but there was heavy sighing and moaning in one corner . Ib struck a light with the help of a match . It was the mother of the child who lay sighing on the miserable bed . `` Can I be of any service to you ? '' asked Ib . `` This little girl has brought me up here , but I am a stranger in this city . Are there no neighbors or friends whom I could call to you ? '' And he raised the sick woman 's head , and smoothed her pillow . It was Christine of the heath ! For years her name had not been mentioned yonder , for the mention of her would have disturbed Ib 's peace of mind , and rumor had told nothing good concerning her . The wealth which her husband had inherited from his parents had made him proud and arrogant . He had given up his certain appointment , had traveled for half a year in foreign lands , and on his return had incurred debts , and yet lived in an expensive fashion . His carriage had bent over more and more , so to speak , until at last it turned over completely . The many merry companions and table-friends he had entertained declared it served him right , for he had kept house like a madman ; and one morning his corpse was found in the canal . The icy hand of death was already on Christine . Her youngest child , only a few weeks old , expected in prosperity and born in misery , was already in its grave , and it had come to this with Christine herself , that she lay , sick to death and forsaken , in a miserable room , amid a poverty that she might well have borne in her childish days , but which now oppressed her painfully , since she had been accustomed to better things . It was her eldest child , also a little Christine , that here suffered hunger and poverty with her , and whom Ib had now brought home . `` I am unhappy at the thought of dying and leaving the poor child here alone , '' she said . `` Ah , what is to become of the poor thing ? '' And not a word more could she utter . And Ib brought out another match , and lighted up a piece of candle he found in the room , and the flame illumined the wretched dwelling . And Ib looked at the little girl , and thought how Christine had looked when she was young ; and he felt that for her sake he would be fond of this child , which was as yet a stranger to him . The dying woman gazed at him , and her eyes opened wider and wider -- did she recognize him ? He never knew , for no further word passed over her lips . And it was in the forest by the river Gudenau , in the region of the heath . The air was thick and dark , and there were no blossoms on the heath plant ; but the autumn tempests whirled the yellow leaves from the wood into the stream , and out over the heath towards the hut of the boatman , in which strangers now dwelt ; but beneath the ridge , safe beneath the protection of the high trees , stood the little farm , trimly whitewashed and painted , and within it the turf blazed up cheerily in the chimney ; for within was sunlight , the beaming sunlight of a child 's two eyes ; and the tones of the spring birds sounded in the words that came from the child 's rosy lips : she sat on Ib 's knee , and Ib was to her both father and mother , for her own parents were dead , and had vanished from her as a dream vanishes alike from children and grown men . Ib sat in the pretty neat house , for he was a prosperous man , while the mother of the little girl rested in the churchyard at Copenhagen , where she had died in poverty . -LRB-B- Illustration : LITTLE CHRISTINE . aaaaa -RRB-B- aaa Ib had money , and was said to have provided for the future . He had won gold out of the black earth , and he had a Christine for his own , after all .