JASPER JAY TELLS SOME NEWS Arthur Scott Bailey It was quite late in the fall , and the weather had grown very cold . Mrs. Coon and her family had not left their home for several days ; but on this day she thought it would be pleasant to go out in the sunshine and get a breath of fresh air and a bite to eat . Fatty was the only one of her children that was not asleep ; and he complained of being very hungry . So Mrs. Coon decided to take him with her . The hunting was not very good . There were no birds ' eggs at all to be found in the trees . The river and the brook and the creek were all frozen over , so Fatty and his mother could not catch any fish . And as for corn -- Farmer Green had long ago gathered the last ear of it . Fatty wished that it was summertime . But it only made him hungrier than ever , to think of all the good things to eat that summer brings . He was feeling very unhappy when his mother said to him sharply -- `` Run up this tree ! Hurry , now ! Do n't ask any questions . '' Now , Fatty did not always mind his mother as quickly as he might have . But this time he saw that she had stopped and was sniffing the air as if there was something about it she did not like . That was enough for Fatty . He scrambled up the nearest tree . For he knew that his mother had discovered danger of some sort . Mrs. Coon followed close behind Fatty . And they had . no sooner hidden in the branches than Fatty saw what it was that his mother had smelled . It was Johnnie Green ! He passed right underneath the tree where they were perched . And as Mrs. Coon peeped down at him she shuddered and shivered and shook so hard that Fatty could n't help noticing it . `` What 's the matter ? '' he asked , as soon as Johnnie Green was out of sight . `` His cap ! '' Mrs. Coon exclaimed . `` He is wearing a coon-skin cap ! '' Now do you wonder that she was upset ? `` Do n't ever go near Farmer Green 's house , '' she warned Fatty . `` You do n't want to be made into a cap , or a pair of gloves , or a coat , or anything like that , do you ? '' `` No , indeed , Mother ! '' Fatty was quite sure that such an adventure would n't please him at all . And he told himself right then and there that he would never go anywhere near Farmer Green 's house . We shall see how well Fatty remembered . That very afternoon Fatty Coon heard some very pleasant news . It was Jasper Jay who told him . Jasper Jay was a very noisy blue jay who lived in the neighborhood . He did not go south with most of the other birds when the cold weather came . He liked the winter and he was forever tearing about the woods , squalling and scolding at everybody . He was a very noisy fellow . Well ! when Fatty and his mother had reached home after their hunt , Fatty stayed out of doors . He climbed to the top of a tall pine tree nearby and stretched himself along a limb , to enjoy the sunshine , which felt very good upon his broad back . It was there that Jasper Jay found him and told him the pleasant news . And Fatty was very glad to hear the news , because he was still hungry . This is what Jasper Jay told Fatty : he told him that Farmer Green had as many as forty fat turkeys , which roosted every night in a spreading oak in Farmer Green 's front yard . `` If I liked turkeys I would certainly go down there some night and get one , '' said Jasper Jay .