JOHNNIE GREEN LOSES HIS PET Arthur Scott Bailey Now , Farmer Green and his hired man had not chopped long before they stopped to breathe . They had not chopped long -- but oh ! what great , yawning holes they had made in the big chestnut ! From the limb where he clung Fatty Coon looked down . The tree no longer shook . And Fatty felt better at once . You see , he thought that the men would go away , just as Johnnie had gone away the night before . But they had no such idea at all . `` Which way are you going to fell her ? '' the hired man asked . He said HER , meaning the TREE , of course . `` That way ! '' said Farmer Green , pointing toward the woods . `` We 'll have to drop her that way , or she 'll fall right across the road , and of course THAT would never do . '' `` But will she clear the trees on the edge of the woods ? '' The hired man appeared somewhat doubtful . `` Oh , to be sure -- to be sure ! '' answered Farmer Green . And with that they set to work again . But this time they both chopped on the same side of the tree -- the side toward the woods . Now , if Fatty Coon was frightened before , you will believe that he was still more frightened when the big chestnut tree began to sag . Yes ! it began to lean toward the woods . Slowly , slowly it tipped . And Fatty was scared half out of his mind . He climbed to the very top of the tree , because he wanted to get just as far away from those men as he could . And there he waited . There was nothing else he could do . Yes ! he waited until that awful moment should come when the tree would go crashing down upon the ground . What was going to happen to him then ? Fatty wondered . And while he was wondering there sounded all at once a great snapping and splitting . And Fatty felt the tree falling , falling . He could hear Johnnie Green shouting . And he shut his eyes and held fast to his branch . Then came the crash . When Fatty Coon opened his eyes he expected to see Johnnie Green all ready to seize him . But to his great surprise he was still far above the ground . You see , Farmer Green had been mistaken . Either the big chestnut tree was taller than he had guessed , or the woods were nearer than he had thought . For instead of dropping upon the ground , Fatty 's tree had fallen right against another tree on the edge of the woods . And there it lay , half-tipped over , with its branches caught fast in the branches of that other tree . It was no wonder that Johnnie Green shouted . And he shouted still more loudly when he saw Fatty scramble out of the big chestnut and into the other tree , and out of that tree and into another , and then out of THAT tree . Fatty was going straight into the woods . It was no wonder that Johnnie Green shouted . For he had lost his pet coon . He had lost him before he ever had him . And he was sadly disappointed . But Fatty Coon was not disappointed , for he had not wanted to be a pet at all . And he was very glad -- you may be sure -- to get safely home once more .