PRINCE CAMARALZAMAN AND THE PRINCESS OF CHINA . Arabian Writer About twenty days ' sail from the coast of Persia , in the Islands of the Children of Khaledan , there lived a king who had an only son , Prince Camaralzaman . He was brought up with all imaginable care ; and when he came to a proper age , his father appointed him an experienced governor and able tutors . As he grew up he learned all the knowledge which a prince ought to possess , and acquitted himself so well that he charmed all that saw him , and particularly the sultan his father . When the prince had attained the age of fifteen years , the sultan , who loved him tenderly , and gave him every day new marks of his affection , had thoughts of giving him a still greater one , by resigning to him his throne , and he acquainted his grand vizier with his intentions . ` I fear , ' said he , ` lest my son should lose in the inactivity of youth those advantages which nature and education have given him ; therefore , since I am advanced in age , and ought to think of retirement , I have thoughts of resigning the government to him , and passing the remainder of my days in the satisfaction of seeing him reign . I have undergone the fatigue of a crown a long while , and think it is now proper for me to retire . ' The grand vizier did not wholly dissuade the sultan from such a proceeding , but sought to modify his intentions . ` Sir , ' replied he , ` the prince is yet but young , and it would not be , in my humble opinion , advisable to burden him with the weight of a crown so soon . Your majesty fears , with great reason , his youth may be corrupted in indolence , but to remedy that do not you think it would be proper to marry him ? Your majesty might then admit him to your council , where he would learn by degrees the art of reigning , and so be prepared to receive your authority whenever in your discernment you shall think him qualified . ' The sultan found this advice of his prime minister highly reasonable , therefore he summoned the prince to appear before him at the same time that he dismissed the grand vizier . The prince , who had been accustomed to see his father only at certain times , without being sent for , was a little startled at this summons ; when , therefore , he came before him , he saluted him with great respect , and stood with his eyes fixed on the ground . The sultan perceiving his constraint , said to him in a mild way , ` Do you know , son , for what reason I have sent for you ? ' The prince modestly replied , ` God alone knows the heart ; I shall hear it from your majesty with pleasure . ' ` I sent for you , ' said the sultan , ` to inform you that I have an intention of providing a proper marriage for you ; what do you think of it ? ' Prince Camaralzaman heard this with great uneasiness : it so surprised him , that he paused and knew not what answer to make . After a few moments ' silence , he replied , ` Sir , I beseech you to pardon me if I seem surprised at the declaration you have made to me . I did not expect such proposals to one so young as I am . It requires time to determine on what your majesty requires of me . ' Prince Camaralzaman 's answer extremely afflicted his father . He was not a little grieved to see what an aversion he had to marriage , yet would not charge him with disobedience , nor exert his paternal authority . He contented himself with telling him he would not force his inclinations , but give him time to consider the proposal . The sultan said no more to the prince : he admitted him into his council , and gave him every reason to be satisfied . At the end of the year he took him aside , and said to him , ` My son , have you thoroughly considered what I proposed to you last year about marrying ? Will you still refuse me that pleasure I expect from your obedience , and suffer me to die without it ? ' The prince seemed less disconcerted than before , and was not long answering his father to this effect : ` Sir , I have not neglected to consider your proposal , but after the maturest reflection find myself more confirmed in my resolution to continue as I am , so that I hope your majesty will pardon me if I presume to tell you it will be in vain to speak to me any further about marriage . ' He stopped here , and went out without staying to hear what the sultan would answer . Any other monarch would have been very angry at such freedom in a son , and would have made him repent it , but the sultan loved him , and preferred gentle methods before he proceeded to compulsion . He communicated this new cause of discontent to his prime minister . ' I have followed your advice , ' said he , ` but Camaralzaman is further than ever from complying with my desires . He delivered his resolution in such free terms that it required all my reason and moderation to keep my temper . Tell me , I beseech you , how I shall reclaim a disposition so rebellious to my will ? ' ` Sir , ' answered the grand vizier , ` patience brings many things about that before seemed impracticable , but it may be this affair is of a nature not likely to succeed in that way . Your majesty would have no cause to reproach yourself if you gave the prince another year to consider the matter . If , in this interval he returns to his duty , you will have the greater satisfaction , and if he still continues averse to your proposal when this is expired , your majesty may propose to him in full council that it is highly necessary for the good of the state that he should marry , and it is not likely he will refuse to comply before so grave an assembly , which you honor with your presence . ' The year expired , and , to the great regret of the sultan , Prince Camaralzaman gave not the least proof of having changed his mind . One day , therefore , when there was a great council held , the prime vizier , the other viziers , the principal officers of the crown , and the generals of the army being present , the sultan began to speak thus to the prince : ` My son , it is now a long while since I have expressed to you my earnest desire to see you married ; and I imagined you would have had more consideration for a father , who required nothing unreasonable of you , than to oppose him so long . But after so long a resistance on your part , which has almost worn out my patience , I have thought fit to propose the same thing once more to you in the presence of my council . I would have you consider that you ought not to have refused this , not merely to oblige a parent ; the well-being of my dominions requires it ; and the assembly here present joins with me to require it of you . Declare yourself , then ; that , according to your answer , I may take the proper measures . ' The prince answered with so little reserve , or rather with so much warmth , that the sultan , enraged to see himself thwarted in full council , cried out , ` Unnatural son ! have you the insolence to talk thus to your father and sultan ? ' He ordered the guards to take him away , and carry him to an old tower that had been unoccupied for a long while , where he was shut up , with only a bed , a little furniture , some books , and one slave to attend him . Camaralzaman , thus deprived of liberty , was nevertheless pleased that he had the freedom to converse with his books , and that made him look on his imprisonment with indifference . In the evening he bathed and said his prayers ; and after having read some chapters in the Koran , with the same tranquility of mind as if he had been in the sultan 's palace , he undressed himself and went to bed , leaving his lamp burning by him all the while he slept . In this tower was a well , which served in the daytime for a retreat to a certain fairy , named Maimoune , daughter of Damriat , king or head of a legion of genies . It was about midnight when Maimoune sprang lightly to the mouth of the well , to wander about the world after her wonted custom , where her curiosity led her . She was surprised to see a light in Prince Camaralzaman 's chamber , and entered , without stopping , over the slave who lay at the door . Prince Camaralzaman had but half-covered his face with the bedclothes , and Maimoune perceived the finest young man she had seen in all her rambles through the world . ` What crime can he have committed , ' said she to herself , ` that a man of his high rank can deserve to be treated thus severely ? ' for she had already heard his story , and could hardly believe it . She could not forbear admiring the prince , till at length , having kissed him gently on both cheeks and in the middle of the forehead without waking him , she took her flight into the air . As she mounted high to the middle region , she heard a great flapping of wings , which made her fly that way ; and when she approached , she knew it was a genie who made the noise , but it was one of those that are rebellious . As for Maimoune , she belonged to that class whom the great Solomon compelled to acknowledge him . This genie , whose name was Danhasch , knew Maimoune , and was seized with fear , being sensible how much power she had over him by her submission to the Almighty . He would fain have avoided her , but she was so near him that he must either fight or yield . He therefore broke silence first . ` Brave Maimoune , ' said he , in the tone of a suppliant , ` swear to me that you will not hurt me ; and I swear also on my part not to do you any harm . ' ` Cursed genie , ' replied Maimoune , ` what hurt canst thou do me ? I fear thee not ; but I will grant thee this favor ; I will swear not to do thee any harm . Tell me then , wandering spirit , whence thou comest , what thou hast seen , and what thou hast done this night . ' ` Fair lady , ' answered Danhasch , ` you meet me at a good time to hear something very wonderful . I come from the utmost limits of China , which look on the last islands of this hemisphere . But , charming Maimoune , ' said Danhasch , who so trembled with fear at the sight of this fairy that he could hardly speak , ` promise me at least that you will forgive me , and let me go on after I have satisfied your demands . ' ` Go on , go on , cursed spirit , ' replied Maimoune ; ` go on and fear nothing . Dost thou think I am as perfidious an elf as thyself , and capable of breaking the solemn oath I have made ? Be sure you tell nothing but what is true , or I shall clip thy wings , and treat thee as thou deservest . ' Danhasch , a little heartened at the words of Maimoune , said , ` My dear lady , I will tell you nothing but what is strictly true , if you will but have the goodness to hear me . The country of China , from whence I come , is one of the largest and most powerful kingdoms of the earth . The king of this country is at present Gaiour , who has an only daughter , the finest maiden that ever was seen in the world since it was a world . Neither you nor I , nor your class nor mine , nor all our respective genies , have expressions strong enough , nor eloquence sufficient to describe this brilliant lady . Any one that did not know the king , father of this incomparable princess would scarcely be able to imagine the great respect and kindness he shows her . No one has ever dreamed of such care as his to keep her from every one but the man who is to marry her : and , that the retreat which he has resolved to place her in may not seem irksome to her , he has built for her seven palaces , the most extraordinary and magnificent that ever were known . ` The first palace is of rock crystal , the second of copper , the third of fine steel , the fourth of brass , the fifth of touchstone , the sixth of silver , and the seventh of massy gold . He has furnished these palaces most sumptuously , each in a manner suited to the materials that they are built of . He has filled the gardens with grass and flowers , intermixed with pieces of water , water - works , fountains , canals , cascades , and several great groves of trees , where the eye is lost in the prospect , and where the sun never enters , and all differently arranged . King Gaiour , in a word , has shown that he has spared no expense . ` Upon the fame of this incomparable princess 's beauty , the most powerful neighbouring kings sent ambassadors to request her in marriage . The King of China received them all in the same obliging manner ; but as he resolved not to compel his daughter to marry without her consent , and as she did not like any of the suitors , the ambassadors were forced to return as they came : they were perfectly satisfied with the great honors and civilities they had received . ' ' `` Sir , '' said the princess to the king her father , `` you have an inclination to see me married , and think to oblige me by it ; but where shall I find such stately palaces and delicious gardens as I have with your majesty ? Through your good pleasure I am under no constraint , and have the same honors shown to me as are paid to yourself . These are advantages I can not expect to find anywhere else , to whatsoever husband I should give my hand ; men love ever to be masters , and I do not care to be commanded . '' ` At last there came an embassy from the most rich and potent king of all . This prince the King of China recommended to his daughter as her husband , urging many powerful arguments to show how much it would be to her advantage to accept him , but she intreated her father to dispense with her accepting him for the same reasons as before , and at last lost all the respect due to the king her father : `` Sir , '' said she , in anger , `` talk to me no more of this or any other match , unless you would have me plunge this poniard in my bosom , to deliver myself from your importunities . '' ` The king , greatly enraged , said `` Daughter , you are mad , and I must treat you as such . '' In a word , he had her shut up in a single apartment of one of his palaces , and allowed her only ten old women to wait upon her and keep her company , the chief of whom had been her nurse . And in order that the kings his neighbors , who had sent embassies to him on this account , might not think any more of her , he despatched envoys to them severally , to let them know how averse his daughter was to marriage ; and as he did not doubt that she was really mad , he charged them to make known in every court that if there were any physician that would undertake to come and cure her , he should , if he succeeded , marry her for his pains . ` Fair Maimoune , ' continued Danhasch , ` all that I have told you is true ; and I have not failed to go every day regularly to contemplate this incomparable beauty , to whom I would be very sorry to do the least harm , notwithstanding my natural inclination to mischief . Come and see her , I conjure you ; it would be well worth your while ; I am ready to wait on you as a guide , and you have only to command me . I doubt not that you would think yourself obliged to me for the sight of a princess unequalled for beauty . ' Instead of answering Danhasch , Maimoune burst out into violent laughter , which lasted for some time ; and Danhasch , not knowing what might be the occasion of it , was astonished beyond measure . When she had laughed till she could laugh no more , she cried , ` Good , good , very good ! you would have me believe all you have told me : I thought you intended to tell me something surprising and extraordinary , and you have been talking all this while of a mad woman . What would you say , cursed genie , if you had seen the beautiful prince that I have just come from seeing ? I am confident you would soon give up the contest , and not pretend to compare your choice with mine . ' ` Agreeable Maimoune , ' replied Danhasch , ` may I presume to ask you who is this prince you speak of ? ' ` Know , ' answered Maimoune , ` the same thing has happened to him as to your princess . The king his father would have married him against his will ; but , after much importunity , he frankly told him he would have nothing to do with a wife . For this reason he is at this moment imprisoned in an old tower which I make my residence , and whence I came but just now from admiring him . ' ` I will not absolutely contradict you , ' replied Danhasch ; ` but , my pretty lady , you must give me leave to be of opinion , till I have seen your prince , that no mortal upon earth can come up to the beauty of my princess . ' ` Hold thy tongue , cursed sprite , ' replied Maimoune . ` I tell thee once more that that can never be . ' ` I will not contend with you , ' said Danhasch ; ` but the way to be convinced whether what I say is true or false is to accept the proposal I made you to go and see my princess , and after that I will go with you to your prince . ' ` There is no need I should take so much pains ' replied Maimoune ; ` there is another way to satisfy us both ; and that is for you to bring your princess , and place her in my prince 's room ; by this means it will be easy for us to compare them together and determine the dispute . ' Danhasch consented to what Maimoune had proposed , and determined to set out immediately for China upon that errand . But Maimoune told him she must first show him the tower whither he was to bring the princess . They flew together to the tower , and when Maimoune had shown it to Danhasch , she cried , ` Go , fetch your princess , and do it quickly , for you shall find me here : but listen , you shall pay the wager if my prince is more beautiful than your princess , and I will pay it if your princess is more beautiful than my prince . ' Danhasch left Maimoune , and flew towards China , whence he soon returned with incredible speed , bringing the fair princess along with him , asleep . Maimoune received him , and introduced him into the tower of Prince Camaralzaman , where they placed the princess still asleep . At once there arose a great contest between the genie and the fairy about their respective beauty . They were some time admiring and comparing them without speaking : at length Danhasch broke silence , and said to Maimoune , ` You see , as I have already told you , my princess is handsomer than your prince ; now , I hope , you are convinced of it . ' ` Convinced of it ! ' replied Maimoune ; ` I am not convinced of it , and you must be blind if you can not see that my prince is far handsomer . The princess is fair , I do not deny ; but if you compare them together without prejudice , you will quickly see the difference . ' ` Though I should compare them ever so often , ' said Danhasch , ' I could never change my opinion . I saw at first sight what I see now , and time will not make me see differently : however , this shall not hinder my yielding to you , charming Maimoune , if you desire it . ' ` Yield to me as a favor ? I scorn it , ' said Maimoune : ` I would not receive a favor at the hand of such a wicked genie ; I refer the matter to an umpire , and if you will not consent I shall win by your refusal . ' Danhasch no sooner gave his consent than Maimoune stamped with her foot ; the earth opened , and out came a hideous , humpbacked , squinting , and lame genie , with six horns on his head , and claws on his hands and feet . As soon as he had come forth , and the earth had closed up , he , perceiving Maimoune , cast himself at her feet , and then rising up on one knee asked her what she would please to do with him . ` Rise , Caschcasch , ' said Maimoune , ` I brought you hither to determine a difference between me and Danhasch . Look there , and tell me , without partiality , which is the handsomest of those two that lie asleep , the young man or the young lady . ' Caschcasch looked at the prince and princess with great attention , admiration and surprise ; and after he had considered them a good while , without being able to determine which was the handsomer , he turned to Maimoune , and said , ` Madam , I must confess I should deceive you and betray myself , if I pretended to say that one was a whit handsomer than the other : the more I examine them , the more it seems to me that each possesses , in a sovereign degree , the beauty which is betwixt them . But if there be any difference , the best way to determine it is to awaken them one after the other , and by their conduct to decide which ought to be deemed the most beautiful . ' This proposal of Caschcasch 's pleased equally both Maimoune and Danhasch . Maimoune then changed herself into a gnat , and leaping on the prince 's neck stung him so smartly that he awoke , and put up his hand to the place ; but Maimoune skipped away , and resumed her own form , which , like those of the two genies , was invisible , the better to observe what he would do . In drawing back his hand , the prince chanced to let it fall on that of the Princess of China , and on opening his eyes , was exceedingly surprised to perceive a lady of the greatest beauty . He raised his head and leaned on his elbow , the better to consider her . She was so beautiful that he could not help crying out , ` What beauty ! my heart ! my soul ! ' In saying which he kissed her with so little caution that she would certainly have been awaked by it , had she not slept sounder than ordinary , through the enchantment of Danhasch . He was going to awaken her at that instant , but suddenly refrained himself . ` Is not this she , ' said he , ` that the sultan my father would have had me marry ? He was in the wrong not to let me see her sooner . I should not have offended him by my disobedience and passionate language to him in public , and he would have spared himself the confusion which I have occasioned him . ' The prince began to repent sincerely of the fault he had committed , and was once more upon the point of waking the Princess of China . ` It may be , ' said he , recollecting himself , ` that the sultan my father has a mind to surprise me with this young lady . Who knows but he has brought her himself , and is hidden behind the curtains to make me ashamed of myself . I will content myself with this ring , as a remembrance of her . ' He then gently drew off a fine ring which the princess had on her finger , and immediately put on one of his own in its place . After this he fell into a more profound sleep than before through the enchantment of the genies . As soon as Prince Camaralzaman was in a sound sleep , Danhasch transformed himself , and went and bit the princess so rudely on the lip that she forthwith awoke , started up , and opening her eyes , was not a little surprised to see a beautiful young prince . From surprise she proceeded to admiration , and from admiration to a transport of joy . ` What , ' cried she , ` is it you the king my father has designed me for a husband ? I am indeed most unfortunate for not knowing it before , for then I should not have made him so angry with me . Wake then , wake ! ' So saying , she took Prince Camaralzaman by the arm and shook him so that he would have awaked , had not Maimoune increased his sleep by enchantment . She shook him several times , and finding he did not wake , she seized his hand , and kissing it eagerly , perceived he had a ring upon his finger which greatly resembled hers , and which she was convinced was her own , by seeing she had another on her finger instead of it . She could not comprehend how this exchange could have been made . Tired with her fruitless endeavors to awaken the prince , she soon fell asleep . When Maimoune saw that she could now speak without fear of awaking the princess , she cried to Danhasch , ` Ah , cursed genie dost thou not now see what thy contest has come to ? Art thou not now convinced how much thy princess is inferior to my prince ? But I pardon thee thy wager . Another time believe me when I assert anything . ' Then turning to Caschcasch , ` As for you , ' said she , ' I thank you for your trouble ; take the princess , you and Danhasch , and convey her back whence he has taken her . ' Danhasch and Caschcasch did as they were commanded , and Maimoune retired to her well . Prince Camaralzaman on waking next morning looked to see if the lady whom he had seen the night before were there . When he found she was gone , he cried out , ` I thought indeed this was a trick the king my father designed to play me . I am glad I was aware of it . ' Then he waked the slave , who was still asleep , and bade him come and dress him , without saying anything . The slave brought a basin and water , and after he had washed and said his prayers , he took a book and read for some time . After this , he called the slave , and said to him , ` Come hither , and look you , do not tell me a lie . How came that lady hither , and who brought her ? ' ` My lord , ' answered the slave with great astonishment , ` I know not what lady your highness speaks of . ' ` I speak , ' said the prince , ` of her that came , or rather , that was brought hither . ' ` My lord , ' replied the slave , ` I swear I know of no such lady ; and how should she come in without my knowledge , since I lay at the door ? ' ` You are a lying rascal , ' replied the prince , ` and in the plot to vex and provoke me the more . ' So saying , he gave him a box on the ear which knocked him down ; and after having stamped upon him for some time , he at length tied the well-rope under his arms , and plunged him several times into the water , neck and heels . I will drown thee , ' cried he , ` if thou dost not tell me speedily who this lady was , and who brought her . ' The slave , perplexed and half-dead , said within himself , ` The prince must have lost his senses through grief . ' ` My lord , then , ' cried he , in a suppliant tone , ` I beseech your highness to spare my life , and I will tell you the truth . ' The prince drew the slave up , and pressed him to tell him . As soon as he was out of the well , ` My lord , ' said he trembling , ` your highness must perceive that it is impossible for me to satisfy you in my present condition ; I beg you to give me leave to go and change my clothes first . ' ` I permit you , but do it quickly , ' said the prince , ` and be sure you conceal nothing . ' The slave went out , and having locked the door upon the prince , ran to the palace just as he was . The king was at that time in discourse with his prime vizier , to whom he had just related the grief in which he had passed the night on account of his son 's disobedience and opposition to his will . The minister endeavored to comfort his master by telling him that the prince himself had given him good cause to be angry . ` Sir , ' said he , ` your majesty need not repent of having treated your son after this sort . Have but patience to let him continue a while in prison , and assure yourself his temper will abate , and he will submit to all you require . ' The grand vizier had just made an end of speaking when the slave came in and cast himself at the king 's feet . ` My lord , ' said he , ' I am very sorry to be the messenger of ill news to your majesty , which I know must create you fresh affliction . The prince is distracted , my lord ; and his treatment to me , as you may see , too plainly proves it . ' Then he proceeded to tell all the particulars of what Prince Camaralzaman had said to him , and the violence with which he had been treated . The king , who did not expect to hear anything of this afflictive kind , said to the prime minister , ` This is very melancholy , very different from the hopes you gave me just now : go immediately , without loss of time , see what is the matter , and come and give me an account . ' The grand vizier obeyed instantly ; and coming into the prince 's chamber , he found him sitting on his bed in good temper , and with a book in his hand , which he was reading . After mutual salutations , the vizier sat down by him , and said , ` My lord , I wish that a slave of yours were punished for coming to frighten the king your father . ' ` What , ' replied the prince , ` could give my father alarm ? I have much greater cause to complain of that slave . ' ` Prince , ' answered the vizier , ` God forbid that the news which he has told your father concerning you should be true ; indeed , I myself find it to be false , by the good temper I observe you in . ' ` It may be , ' replied the prince , ` that he did not make himself well understood ; but since you are come , who ought to know something of the matter , give me leave to ask you who was that lady who was here last night ? ' The grand vizier was thunderstruck at this question ; however , he recovered himself and said , ` My lord , be not surprised at my astonishment at your question . Is it possible that a lady , or any other person in the world , should penetrate by night into this place , without entering at the door and walking over the body of your slave ? I beseech you , recollect yourself , and you will find it is only a dream which has made this impression on you . ' ` I give no ear to what you say , ' said the prince , raising his voice ; ` I must know of you absolutely what is become of the lady ; and if you hesitate to obey me , I shall soon be able to force you to obey me . ' At these stern words the grand vizier began to be in greater confusion than before , and was thinking how to extricate himself . He endeavored to pacify the prince by good words , and begged of him , in the most humble and guarded manner , to tell him if he had seen this lady . ` Yes , yes , ' answered the prince , ` I have seen her , and am very well satisfied you sent her . She played the part you had given her admirably well , for I could not get a word out of her . She pretended to be asleep , but I was no sooner fallen into a slumber than she arose and left me . You know all this ; for I doubt not she has been to make her report to you . ' ` My lord , ' replied the vizier , ` nothing of this has been done which you seem to reproach me with ; neither your father nor I have sent this lady you speak of ; permit me therefore to remind your highness once more that you have only seen this lady in a dream . ' ` Do you come to affront and contradict me , ' said the prince in a great rage , ` and to tell me to my face that what I have told you is a dream ? ' At the same time he took him by the beard , and loaded him with blows as long as he could stand . The poor grand vizier endured with respectful patience all the violence of his lord 's indignation , and could not help saying within himself , ` Now am I in as bad a condition as the slave , and shall think myself happy if I can , like him , escape from any further danger . ' In the midst of repeated blows he cried out for but a moment 's audience , which the prince , after he had nearly tired himself with beating him , consented to give . ` I own , my prince , ' said the grand vizier , dissembling , ` there is something in what your highness suspects ; but you can not be ignorant of the necessity a minister is under to obey his royal master 's orders ; yet , if you will but be pleased to set me at liberty , I will go and tell him anything on your part that you shall think fit to command me . ' ` Go then , ' said the prince , ` and tell him from me that if he pleases I will marry the lady he sent me . Do this quickly , and bring me a speedy answer . ' The grand vizier made a profound reverence , and went away , not thinking himself altogether safe till he had got out of the tower , and shut the door upon the prince . He came and presented himself before the king , with a countenance that sufficiently showed he had been ill-used , which the king could not behold without concern . ` Well , ' said the king , ` in what condition did you find my son ? ' ` Sir , ' answered the vizier , ` what the slave reported to your majesty is but too true . ' He then began to relate his interview with Camaralzaman , how he flew into a passion upon his endeavoring to persuade him it was impossible that the lady he spoke of should have got in ; the ill-treatment he had received from him ; how he had been used , and by what means he made his escape . The king , the more concerned as he loved the prince with excessive tenderness , resolved to find out the truth of this matter , and therefore proposed himself to go and see his son in the tower , accompanied by the grand vizier . Prince Camaralzaman received the king his father in the tower with great respect . The king sat down , and , after he had made his son the prince sit down by him , put several questions to him , which he answered with great good sense . The king every now and then looked at the grand vizier , as intimating that he did not find his son had lost his wits , but rather thought he had lost his . The king at length spoke of the lady to the prince . ` My son , ' said he , ` I desire you to tell me what lady it was that came here , as I have been told . ' ` Sir , ' answered Camaralzaman , ` I beg of your majesty not to give me more vexation on that head , but rather to oblige me by letting me have her in marriage : this young lady has charmed me . I am ready to receive her at your hands with the deepest gratitude . ' The king was surprised at this answer of the prince , so remote , as he thought , from the good sense he had shown before . ` My son , ' said he to him , ` you fill me with the greatest astonishment imaginable by what you now say to me ; I declare to you by my crown , that is to devolve upon you after me , I know not one word of the lady you mention ; and if any such has come to you , it was altogether without my knowledge . But how could she get into this tower without my consent ? For whatever my grand vizier told you , it was only to appease you : it must therefore be a mere dream ; and I beg of you not to believe otherwise , but to recover your senses . ' ` Sir , ' replied the prince , ` I should be for ever unworthy of your majesty 's favor , if I did not give entire credit to what you are pleased to say ; but I humbly beseech you at the same time to give a patient hearing to what I shall say to you , and then to judge whether what I have the honor to tell you be a dream or not . ' Then Prince Camaralzaman related to the king his father after what manner he had been awakened , and the pains he took to awaken the lady without effect , and how he had made the exchange of his ring with that of the lady : showing the king the ring , he added , ` Sir , your majesty must needs know my ring very well , you have seen it so often . After this , I hope you will be convinced that I have not lost my senses , as you have been almost made to believe . ' The king was so perfectly convinced of the truth of what his son had been telling him , that he had not a word to say , remaining astonished for some time , and not being able to utter a syllable . ` Son , ' at length replied the king , ` after what I have just heard , and what I see by the ring on your finger , I can not doubt but that you have seen this lady . Would I knew who she was , and I would make you happy from this moment , and I should be the happiest father in the world ! But where shall I find her , and how seek for her ? How could she get in here without my consent ? Why did she come ? These things , I must confess , are past my finding out . ' So saying , and taking the prince by the hand , ` Come then , my son , ' he said , ` let us go and be miserable together . ' The king then led his son out of the tower , and conveyed him to the palace , where he no sooner arrived than in despair he fell ill , and took to his bed ; the king shut himself up with him , and spent many a day in weeping , without attending to the affairs of his kingdom . The prime minister , who was the only person that had admittance to him , came one day and told him that the whole court , and even the people , began to murmur at not seeing him , and that he did not administer justice every day as he was wont to do . ` I humbly beg your majesty , therefore , ' proceeded he , ` to pay them some attention ; I am aware your majesty 's company is a great comfort to the prince , but then you must not run the risk of letting all be lost . Permit me to propose to your majesty to remove with the prince to the castle in a little island near the port , where you may give audience to your subjects twice a week only ; during these absences the prince will be so agreeably diverted with the beauty , prospect , and good air of the place , that he will bear them with the less uneasiness . ' The king approved this proposal ; and after the castle , where he had not resided for some time , had been furnished , he removed thither with the prince ; and , excepting the times that he gave audience , as aforesaid , he never left him , but passed all his time by his son 's pillow , endeavoring to comfort him in sharing his grief . Whilst matters passed thus , the two genies , Danhasch and Caschcasch , had carried the Princess of China back to the palace where the king her father had shut her up . When she awoke the next morning , and found by looking to the right and left that Prince Camaralzaman was not by , she cried out with a loud voice to her women . Her nurse , who presented herself first , desired to be informed what she would please to have , and if anything disagreeable had happened to her . ` Tell me , ' said the princess , ` what is become of the young man whom I love with all my soul ? ' ` Madam , ' replied the nurse , ` we can not understand your highness , unless you will be pleased to explain yourself . ' ` A young man , the best and most amiable , ' said the princess ` whom I could not awake ; I ask you where he is ? ' ` Madam , ' answered the nurse , ` your highness asks these questions to jest with us . I beseech you to rise . ' ` I am in earnest , ' said the princess , ` and I must know where this young man is . ' ` Madam , ' insisted the nurse , ` how any man could come without our knowledge we can not imagine , for we all slept about the door of your chamber , which was locked , and I had the key in my pocket . ' At this the princess lost all patience , and catching her nurse by the hair of her head , and giving her two or three sound cuffs , she cried , ` You shall tell me where this young man is , old sorceress , or I will beat your brains out . ' The nurse struggled to get from her , and at last succeeded ; when she went immediately , with tears in her eyes , to complain to the queen her mother , who was not a little surprised to see her in this condition , and asked who had done this . ` Madam , ' began the nurse , ` you see how the princess has treated me ; she would certainly have murdered me , if I had not had the good fortune to escape out of her hands . ' She then began to tell what had been the cause of all that violent passion in the princess . The queen was surprised to hear it , and could not guess how she came to be so senseless as to take that for a reality which could be no other than a dream . ` Your majesty must conclude from all this , madam , ' continued the nurse , ` that the princess is out of her senses . You will think so yourself if you go and see her . ' The queen ordered the nurse to follow her ; and they went together to the princess 's palace that very moment . The Queen of China sat down by her daughter 's bed-side , immediately upon her arrival in her apartment ; and after she had informed herself about her health , she began to ask what had made her so angry with her nurse , that she should have treated her in the manner she had done . ` Daughter , ' said she , ` this is not right ; and a great princess like you should not suffer herself to be so transported by passion . ' ` Madam , ' replied the princess , ` I plainly perceive your majesty is come to mock me ; but I declare I will never let you rest till you consent I shall marry the young man . You must know where he is , and therefore I beg of your majesty to let him come to me again . ' ` Daughter , ' answered the queen , ` you surprise me ; I know nothing of what you talk of . ' Then the princess lost all respect for the queen : ` Madam , ' replied she , ` the king my father and you persecuted me about marrying , when I had no inclination ; I now have an inclination , and I will marry this young man I told you of , or I will kill myself . ' Here the queen endeavored to calm the princess by soft words . ` Daughter , ' said she , ` how could any man come to you ? ' But instead of hearing her , the princess interrupted her , and flew out into such violence as obliged the queen to leave her , and retire in great affliction to inform the king of all that had passed . The king hearing it had a mind likewise to be satisfied in person ; and coming to his daughter 's apartment , asked her if what he had just heard was true . ` Sir , ' replied the princess , ` let us talk no more of that ; I only beseech your majesty to grant me the favor that I may marry the young man . He was the finest and best made youth the sun ever saw . I entreat you , do not refuse me . But that your majesty may not longer doubt whether I have seen this young man , whether I did not do my utmost to awake him , without succeeding , see , if you please , this ring . ' She then reached forth her hand , and showed the king a man 's ring on her finger . The king did not know what to make of all this ; but as he had shut her up as mad , he began to think her more mad than ever : therefore , without saying anything more to her , for fear she might do violence to herself or somebody about her , he had her chained , and shut up more closely than before , allowing her only the nurse to wait on her , with a good guard at the door . The king , exceedingly concerned at this indisposition of his daughter , sought all possible means to get her cured . He assembled his council , and after having acquainted them with the condition she was in , ` If any of you , ' said he , ` is capable of undertaking her cure , and succeeds , I will give her to him in marriage , and make him heir to my dominions and crown after my decease . ' The desire of marrying a handsome young princess , and the hopes of one day governing so powerful a kingdom as that of China , had a strange effect on an emir , already advanced in age , who was present at this council . As he was well skilled in magic , he offered to cure the king 's daughter , and flattered himself he should succeed . ` I consent , ' said the king , ` but I forgot to tell you one thing , and that is , that if you do not succeed you shall lose your head . It would not be reasonable that you should have so great a reward , and yet run no risk on your part ; and what I say to you , ' continued the king , ` I say to all others that shall come after you , that they may consider beforehand what they undertake . ' The emir , however , accepted the condition , and the king conducted him to where the princess was . She covered her face as soon as she saw them come in , and cried out , ` Your majesty surprises me by bringing with you a man whom I do not know , and by whom my religion forbids me to let myself be seen . ' ` Daughter , ' replied the king , ` you need not be scandalized , it is only one of my emirs who is come to demand you in marriage . ' ` It is not , I perceive , the person that you have already given me , and whose faith is plighted by the ring I wear , ' replied the princess ; ` be not offended that I will never marry any other . ' The emir expected the princess would have said or done some extravagant thing , and was not a little disappointed when he heard her talk so calmly and rationally ; for then he understood what was really the matter . He dared not explain himself to the king , who would not have suffered the princess to give her hand to any other than the person to whom he wished to give her with his own hand . He therefore threw himself at his majesty 's feet , and said , ` After what I have heard and observed , sir , it will be to no purpose for me to think of curing the princess , since I have no remedies suited to her malady , for which reason I humbly submit my life to your majesty 's pleasure . ' The king , enraged at his incapacity and the trouble he had given him , caused him immediately to be beheaded . Some days afterwards , his majesty , unwilling to have it said that he had neglected his daughter 's cure , put forth a proclamation in his capital , to the effect that if there were any physician , astrologer , or magician , who would undertake to restore the princess to her senses , he need only come , and he should be employed , on condition of losing his head if he miscarried . He had the same published in the other principal cities and towns of his dominions , and in the courts of the princes his neighbors . The first that presented himself was an astrologer and magician , whom the king caused to be conducted to the princess 's prison . The astrologer drew forth out of a bag he carried under his arm an astrolabe , a small sphere , a chafing dish , several sorts of drugs for fumigations , a brass pot , with many other things , and desired he might have a fire lighted . The princess demanded what all these preparations were for . ` Madam , ' answered the astrologer , ` they are to exorcise the evil spirit that possesses you , to shut him up in this pot , and throw him into the sea . ' ` Foolish astrologer , ' replied the princess , ` I have no occasion for any of your preparations , but am in my perfect senses , and you alone are mad . If your art can bring him I love to me , I shall be obliged to you ; otherwise you may go about your business , for I have nothing to do with you . ' ` Madam , ' said the astrologer , ` if your case be so , I shall desist from all endeavors , believing that only the king your father can remedy your disaster . ' So putting up his apparatus again , he marched away , very much concerned that he had so easily undertaken to cure an imaginary malady . Coming to give an account to the king of what he had done , he began thus boldly : ` According to what your majesty published in your proclamation , and what you were pleased to confirm to me yourself , I thought the princess was distracted , and depended on being able to recover her by the secrets I have long been acquainted with , but I soon found that your majesty alone is the physician who can cure her , by giving her in marriage the person whom she desires . ' The king was very much enraged at the astrologer , and had his head cut off upon the spot . Not to make too long a story of it , a hundred and fifty astrologers , physicians , and magicians all underwent the same fate , and their heads were set up on poles on every gate of the city . The Princess of China 's nurse had a son whose name was Marzavan , and who had been foster-brother to the princess , and brought up with her . Their friendship was so great during their childhood , and all the time they had been together , that they treated each other as brother and sister as they grew up , even some time after their separation . This Marzavan , among other studies , had from his youth been much addicted to judicial astrology , geomancy , and the like secret arts , wherein he became exceedingly skilful . Not content with what he had learned from masters , he traveled as soon as he was able to bear the fatigue , and there was hardly any person of note in any science or art but he sought him in the most remote cities , and kept company with him long enough to obtain all the information he desired , so great was his thirst after knowledge . After several years ' absence in foreign parts on this account , he returned to the capital city of his native country , China , where seeing so many heads on the gate by which he entered , he was exceedingly surprised ; and coming home he demanded for what reason they had been placed there , but more especially he inquired after the princess his foster-sister , whom he had not forgotten . As he could not receive an answer to one inquiry without the other , he heard at length a general account with much sorrow , waiting till he could learn more from his mother , the princess 's nurse . Although the nurse , mother to Marzavan , was very much taken up with the princess , she no sooner heard that her dear son had returned than she found time to come out , embrace him , and converse with him a little . Having told him , with tears in her eyes , what a sad condition the princess was in , and for what reason the king her father had shut her up , he desired to know of his mother if she could not procure him a private sight of her royal mistress , without the king 's knowing it . After some pause , she told him she could say nothing for the present , but if he would meet her the next day at the same hour , she would give him an answer . The nurse knowing that none could approach the princess but herself without leave of the officer who commanded the guard at the gate , addressed herself to him , who she knew had been so lately appointed that he could know nothing of what had passed at the court of China . ` You know , ' said she to him , ` I have brought up the princess , and you may likewise have heard that I had a daughter whom I brought up along with her . This daughter has since been married ; yet the princess still does her the honor to love her , and would fain see her , but without anybody 's perceiving her coming in or out . ' The nurse would have gone on , but the officer cried , ` Say no more ; I will with pleasure do anything to oblige the princess ; go and fetch your daughter , or send for her about midnight , and the gate shall be open to you . ' As soon as night came , the nurse went to look for her son Marzavan , and having found him , she dressed him so artificially in women 's clothes that nobody could know he was a man . She carried him along with her , and the officer verily believing it was her daughter , admitted them together . The nurse , before she presented Marzavan , went to the princess , and said , ` Madam , this is not a woman I have brought to you ; it is my son Marzavan in disguise , newly arrived from his travels , and he having a great desire to kiss your hand , I hope your highness will admit him to that honor . ' ` What ! my brother Marzavan , ' said the princess , with great joy : ` come hither , ' cried she , ` and take off that veil ; for it is not unreasonable , surely , that a brother and a sister should see each other without covering their faces . ' Marzavan saluted her with profound respect , when she , without giving him time to speak , cried out , ` I am rejoiced to see you returned in good health , after so many years ' absence without sending the least account all the while of your welfare , even to your good mother . ' ` Madam , ' replied Marzavan , ` I am infinitely obliged to your highness for your goodness in rejoicing at my health : I hoped to have heard a better account of yours than what to my great affliction I am now witness of . Nevertheless , I can not but rejoice that I am come seasonably enough to bring your highness that remedy of which you stand so much in need ; and though I should reap no other fruit of my studies and long voyage , I should think myself fully recompensed . ' Speaking these words , Marzavan drew forth out of his pocket a book and other things , which he judged necessary to be used , according to the account he had had from his mother of the princess 's illness . The princess , seeing him make all these preparations , cried out , ` What ! brother , are you then one of those that believe me mad ? Undeceive yourself and hear me . ' The princess then began to relate to Marzavan all the particulars of her story , without omitting the least circumstance , even to the ring which was exchanged for hers , and which she showed him . After the princess had done speaking , Marzavan , filled with wonder and astonishment , continued for some time with his eyes fixed on the ground , without speaking a word ; but at length he lifted up his head and said , ` If it be as your highness says , which I do not in the least doubt , I do not despair of procuring you the satisfaction you desire ; but I must first entreat your highness to arm yourself with patience for some time longer , till I shall return after I have traveled over kingdoms which I have not yet visited ; and when you hear of my return , be assured that the object of your wishes is not far off . ' So saying , Marzavan took leave of the princess , and set out next morning on his intended journey . He traveled from city to city , from province to province , and from island to island , and in every place he passed through he could hear of nothing but the Princess Badoura -LRB-B- which was the Princess of China 's name -RRB-B- , and her history . About four months afterwards , Marzavan arrived at Torf , a seaport town , great and populous , where he no more heard of the Princess Badoura , but where all the talk was of Prince Camaralzaman , who was ill , and whose history very much resembled hers . Marzavan was extremely delighted to hear this , and informed himself of the place where the prince was to be found . There were two ways to it ; one by land and sea , the other by sea only , which was the shortest way . Marzavan chose the latter , and embarking on board a merchant ship , he arrived safe in sight of the capital ; but , just before it entered the port , the ship struck against a rock through the unskilfulness of the pilot , and foundered . It went down in sight of Prince Camaralzaman 's castle , where were at that time the king and his grand vizier . Marzavan could swim very well , and immediately on the ship 's sinking cast himself into the sea , and got safe to the shore under the castle , where he was soon relieved by the grand vizier 's order . After he had changed his clothes and been well treated , and had recovered , he was introduced to the grand vizier , who had sent for him . Marzavan being a young man of good air and address , this minister received him very civilly ; and when he heard him give such just and fitting answers to what was asked of him , conceived a great esteem for him . He also gradually perceived that he possessed a great deal of knowledge , and therefore said to him , ` From what I can understand , I perceive you are no common man ; you have traveled a great way : would to God you had learned any secret for curing a certain sick person , who has greatly afflicted this court for a long while ! ' Marzavan replied that if he knew what malady it was , he might perhaps find a remedy for it . Then the grand vizier related to him the whole story of Prince Camaralzaman from its origin , and concealed nothing ; his birth , his education , the inclination the king his father had to see him married early , his resistance and extraordinary aversion to marriage , his disobeying his father in full council , his imprisonment , his pretended extravagancies in prison , which were afterwards changed into a violent madness for a certain unknown lady , who , he pretended , had exchanged a ring with him ; though , for his part , he verily believed there was no such person in the world . Marzavan gave great attention to all the grand vizier said ; and was infinitely rejoiced to find that , by means of his shipwreck , he had so fortunately lighted on the person he was looking after . He saw no reason to doubt that Prince Camaralzaman was the man , and the Princess of China the lady ; therefore , without explaining himself further to the vizier , he desired to see him , that he might be better able to judge of his illness and its cure . ` Follow me , ' said the grand vizier , ` and you will find the king with him , who has already desired that I should introduce you . ' The first thing that struck Marzavan on entering the prince 's chamber was to find him upon his bed languishing , and with his eyes shut . Although he saw him in that condition , and although the king his father was sitting by him , he could not help crying out , ` Was there ever a greater resemblance ! ' He meant to the Princess of China ; for it seems the princess and prince were much alike . The words of Marzavan excited the prince 's curiosity so far that he opened his eyes and looked at him . Marzavan , who had a ready wit , laid hold of that opportunity , and made his compliment in verse extempore : but in such a disguised manner , that neither the king nor grand vizier understood anything of the matter . However , he represented so nicely what had happened to him with the Princess of China , that the prince had no reason to doubt that he knew her , and could give him tidings of her . This made him so joyful , that the effects of it showed themselves in his eyes and looks . After Marzavan had finished his compliment in verse which surprised Prince Camaralzaman so agreeably , his highness took the liberty to make a sign to the king his father , to go from the place where he was , and let Marzavan sit by him . The king , overjoyed at this alteration , which gave him hopes of his son 's speedy recovery , quitted his place , and taking Marzavan by the hand , led him to it . Then his majesty demanded of him who he was , and whence he came . And upon Marzavan 's answering that he was a subject of China and came from that kingdom , the king cried out , ` Heaven grant that you may be able to cure my son of this profound melancholy , and I shall be eternally obliged to you ; all the world shall see how handsomely I will reward you . ' Having said thus , he left the prince to converse at full liberty with the stranger , whilst he went and rejoiced with the grand vizier . Marzavan leaning down to the prince , spoke low in his ear , thus : ` Prince , ' said he , ` it is time you should cease to grieve . The lady for whom you suffer is the Princess Badoura , daughter of Gaiour , King of China . This I can assure your highness from what she has told me of her adventure , and what I have learned of yours . She has suffered no less on your account than you have on hers . ' Here he began to relate all that he knew of the princess 's story , from the night of their extraordinary interview . He omitted not to acquaint him how the king had treated those who had failed in their pretensions to cure the princess of her indisposition . ` But your highness is the only person , ' added he , ` that can cure her effectually , and may present yourself without fear . However , before you undertake so great a voyage , I would have you perfectly recovered , and then we will take such measures as are necessary . Think then immediately of the recovery of your health . ' This discourse had a marvellous effect on the prince . He found such great relief that he felt he had strength to rise , and begged leave of his father to dress himself , with such an air as gave the old king incredible pleasure . The king could not refrain from embracing Marzavan , without inquiring into the means he had used to produce this wonderful effect , and soon after went out of the prince 's chamber with the grand vizier to publish this agreeable news . He ordered public rejoicings for several days together , and gave great largesses to his officers and the people , alms to the poor , and caused the prisoners to be set at liberty throughout his kingdom . The joy was soon general in the capital and every corner of his dominions . Prince Camaralzaman , though extremely weakened by almost continual want of sleep and long abstinence from almost all food , soon recovered his health . When he found himself in a condition to undertake the voyage , he took Marzavan aside , and said , ` Dear Marzavan , it is now time to perform the promise you have made me . I burn with impatience to see the charming princess , and if we do not set out on our journey immediately I shall soon relapse into my former condition . One thing still troubles me , ' continued he , ` and that is the difficulty I shall meet with in getting leave of my father to go . This would be a cruel disappointment to me , if you do not contrive a way to prevent it . You see he scarcely ever leaves me . ' At these words the prince fell to weeping : and Marzavan said , ' I foresaw this difficulty ; let not your highness be grieved at that , for I will undertake to prevent it . My principal design in this voyage was to deliver the Princess of China from her malady , and this from all the reasons of mutual affection which we have borne to each other from our birth , besides the zeal and affection I otherwise owe her ; and I should be wanting in my duty to her , if I did not do my best endeavor to effect her cure and yours , and exert my utmost skill . This then is the means I have contrived to obtain your liberty . You have not stirred abroad for some time , therefore let the king your father understand you have a mind to take the air , and ask his leave to go out on a hunting party for two or three days with me . No doubt he will grant your request ; when he has done so , order two good horses to be got ready , one to mount , the other to change , and leave the rest to me . ' Next day Prince Camaralzarnan took his opportunity . He told the king he was desirous to take the air , and , if he pleased , would go and hunt for two or three days with Marzavan . The king gave his consent , but bade him be sure not to stay out above one night , since too much exercise at first might impair his health , and a too long absence create his majesty uneasiness . He then ordered him to choose the best horses in his stable , and himself took particular care that nothing should be wanting . When all was ready , his majesty embraced the prince , and having recommended the care of him to Marzavan , he let him go . Prince Camaralzaman and Marzavan were soon mounted , when , to amuse the two grooms that led the fresh horses , they made as if they would hunt , and so got as far off the city and out of the road as was possible . When night began to approach , they alighted at a caravansera or inn , where they supped , and slept till about midnight ; then Marzavan awakened the prince without awakening the grooms , and desired his highness to let him have his suit , and to take another for himself , which was brought in his baggage . Thus equipped , they mounted the fresh horses , and after Marzavan had taken one of the groom 's horses by the bridle , they set out as hard as their horses could go . At daybreak they were in a forest , where , coming to the meeting of four roads , Marzavan desired the prince to wait for him a little , and went into the forest . He then killed the groom 's horse , and after having torn the prince 's suit , which he had put off , he besmeared it with blood and threw it into the highway . The prince demanded his reason for what he had done . He told his highness he was sure the king his father would no sooner find that he did not return , and come to know that he had departed without the grooms , than he would suspect something , and immediately send people in quest of them . ` They that come to this place , ' said he , ` and find these blood-stained clothes , will conclude you are devoured by wild beasts , and that I have escaped to avoid the king 's anger . The king , persuading himself that you are dead will stop further pursuit , and we may have leisure to continue our journey without fear of being followed . I must confess , ' continued Marzavan , ` that this is a violent way of proceeding , to alarm an old father with the death of his son , whom he loves so passionately ; but his joy will be the greater when he hears you are alive and happy . ' ` Brave Marzavan , ' replied the prince , ' I can not but approve such an ingenious stratagem , or sufficiently admire your conduct : I am under fresh obligations to you for it . ' The prince and Marzavan , well provided with cash for their expenses , continued their journey both by land and sea , and found no other obstacle but the length of time which it necessarily took up . They , however , arrived at length at the capital of China , where Marzavan , instead of going to his lodgings , carried the prince to a public inn . They tarried there incognito for three days to rest themselves after the fatigue of the voyage ; during which time Marzavan caused an astrologer 's dress to be made for the prince . The three days being expired , the prince put on his astrologer 's habit ; and Marzavan left him to go and acquaint his mother , the Princess Badoura 's nurse , of his arrival , to the end that she might inform the Princess . Prince Camaralzaman , instructed by Marzavan as to what he was to do , and provided with all he wanted as an astrologer , came next morning to the gate of the king 's palace , before the guards and porters , and cried aloud , ` I am an astrologer , and am come to effect a cure on the estimable Princess Badoura , daughter of the most high and mighty monarch Gaiour , King of China , on the conditions proposed by his majesty , to marry her if I succeed , or else to lose my life for my fruitless and presumptuous attempt . ' Besides the guards and porters at the gate , this drew together a great number of people about Prince Camaralzaman . No physician , astrologer , nor magician had appeared for a long time , deterred by the many tragic examples of ill success that appeared before their eyes ; it was therefore thought that there were no more men of these professions in the world , or that there were no more so mad as those that had gone before them . The prince 's good mien , noble air , and blooming youth made everybody that saw him pity him . ` What mean you , sir , ' said some that were nearest to him , ` thus to expose a life of such promising expectation to certain death ? Can not the heads you see on all the gates of this city deter you from such an undertaking ? Consider what you do : abandon this rash attempt , and be gone . ' The prince continued firm , notwithstanding all these remonstrances ; and as he saw nobody come to introduce him , he repeated the same cry with a boldness that made everybody tremble . Then they all cried , ` Let him alone , he is resolved to die ; God have mercy upon his youth and his soul ! ' He then proceeded to cry out a third time in the same manner , when the grand vizier came in person , and introduced him to the King of China . As soon as the prince came into the king 's presence , he bowed and kissed the ground . The king , who , of all that had hitherto presumptuously exposed their lives on this occasion , had not seen one worthy to cast his eyes upon , felt real compassion for Prince Camaralzaman on account of the danger he was about to undergo . But as he thought him more deserving than ordinary , he showed him more honor , and made him come and sit by him . ` Young man , ' said he , ' I can hardly believe that you , at this age , can have acquired experience enough to dare attempt the cure of my daughter . I wish you may succeed ; and would give her to you in marriage with all my heart , with the greatest joy , more willingly than I should have done to others that have offered themselves before you ; but I must declare to you at the same time , with great concern , that if you do not succeed in your attempt , notwithstanding your noble appearance and your youth you must lose your head . ' ` Sir , ' replied the prince , ` I am under infinite obligations to your majesty for the honor you design me , and the great goodness you show to a stranger ; but I desire your majesty to believe that I would not have come from so remote a country as I have done , the name of which perhaps may be unknown in your dominions , if I had not been certain of the cure I propose . What would not the world say of my fickleness , if , after such great fatigues and dangers as I have undergone on this account , I should abandon the enterprise ? Even your majesty would soon lose that esteem you have conceived for me . If I must die , sir , I shall die with the satisfaction of not having lost your esteem after I have merited it . I beseech your majesty therefore to keep me no longer impatient to display the certainty of my art . ' Then the king commanded the officer who had the custody of the princess to introduce Prince Camaralzaman into her apartment : but before he would let him go , he reminded him once more that he was at liberty to renounce his design ; yet the prince paid no heed , but , with astonishing resolution and eagerness , followed the officer . When they came to a long gallery , at the end of which was the princess 's apartment , the prince , who saw himself so near the object of the wishes which had occasioned him so many tears , pushed on , and got before the officer . The officer , redoubling his pace , with much ado got up with him . ` Whither away so fast ? ' cried he , taking him by the arm ; ` you can not get in without me : and it would seem that you have a great desire for death thus to run to it headlong . Not one of all those many astrologers and magicians I have introduced before made such haste as yourself to a place whither I fear you will come but too soon . ' ` Friend , ' replied the Prince , looking earnestly at the officer , and continuing his pace , ` this was because none of the astrologers you speak of were so sure of their art as I am of mine : they were certain , indeed , that they would die if they did not succeed , but they had no certainty of their success . On this account they had reason to tremble on approaching the place whither I go , and where I am sure to find my happiness . ' He had just spoken these words as he was at the door . The officer opened it , and introduced him into a great hall , whence was an entrance into the princess 's chamber , divided from it only by a piece of tapestry . Prince Camaralzaman stopt before he entered , speaking softly to the officer for fear of being heard in the princess 's chamber . ` To convince you , ' said he , ` that there is neither presumption , nor whim , nor youthful conceit in my undertaking , I leave it to your own desire whether I should cure the princess in your presence , or where we are , without going any further ? ' The officer was amazed to hear the prince talk to him with such confidence : he left off insulting him , and said seriously , ` It is no matter whether you do it here or there , provided the business is done : cure her how you will , you will get immortal honor by it , not only in this court , but over all the world . ' The prince replied , ` It will be best then to cure her without seeing her , that you may be witness of my skill : notwithstanding my impatience to see a princess of her rank , who is to be my wife , yet , out of respect to you , I will deprive myself of that pleasure for a little while . ' He was furnished with everything suitable for an astrologer to carry about him ; and taking pen , ink , and paper out of his pocket , he wrote a letter to the princess . When the prince had finished his letter , he folded it up , and enclosed in it the princess 's ring , without letting the officer see what he did . When he had sealed it , he gave it to him : ` There , friend , ' said he , ` carry it to your mistress ; if it does not cure her as soon as she reads it , and sees what is inclosed in it , I give you leave to tell everybody that I am the most ignorant and impudent astrologer that ever was , is , or shall be . ' The officer , entering the Princess of China 's chamber , gave her the packet he received from Prince Camaralzaman . ` Madam , ' said he , ` the boldest astrologer that ever lived , if I am not mistaken , has arrived here , and pretends that on reading this letter and seeing what is in it you will be cured ; I wish he may prove neither a liar nor an impostor . ' The Princess Badoura took the letter , and opened it with a great deal of indifference , but when she saw the ring , she had not patience to read it through ; she rose hastily , broke the chain that held her , ran to the door and opened it . She knew the prince as soon as she saw him , and he knew her ; they at once embraced each other tenderly , without being able to speak for excess of joy : they looked on one another a long time , wondering how they met again after their first interview . The princess 's nurse , who ran to the door with her , made them come into her chamber , where the Princess Badoura gave the prince her ring , saying , ` Take it ; I can not keep it without restoring yours , which I will never part with ; neither can it be in better hands . ' The officer immediately went to tell the King of China what had happened . ` Sir , ' said he , ` all the astrologers and doctors who have hitherto pretended to cure the princess were fools in comparison with the last . He made use neither of schemes nor spells or perfumes , or anything else , but cured her without seeing her . ' Then he told the king how he did it . The monarch was agreeably surprised at the news , and going forthwith to the princess 's chamber embraced her : he afterwards embraced the prince , and , taking his hand , joined it to the princess 's . ` Happy stranger , ' said the king , ` whoever you are , I will keep my word , and give you my daughter to marry ; though , from what I see in you , it is impossible for me to believe that you are really what you appear to be , and would have me believe you . ' Prince Camaralzaman thanked the king in the most humble tones , that he might the better show his gratitude . ` As for my person , ' said he , ` I must own I am not an astrologer , as your majesty very judiciously guessed ; I only put on the habit of one , that I might succeed more easily in my ambition to be allied to the most potent monarch in the world . I was born a prince , and the son of a king and queen ; my name is Camaralzaman ; my father is Schahzaman , who now reigns over the islands that are well known by the name of the Islands of the Children of Khaledan . ' He then told him his history . When the prince had done speaking , the king said to him , ` This history is so extraordinary that it deserves to be known to posterity ; I will take care it shall be ; and the original being deposited in my royal archives , I will spread copies of it abroad , that my own kingdoms and the kingdoms around me may know it . ' The marriage was solemnized the same day , and the rejoicings for it were universal all over the empire of China . Nor was Marzavan forgotten : the king immediately gave him an honorable post in his court , and a promise of further advancement ; and held continual feastings for several months , to show his joy .