PRINCE AHMED AND THE FAIRY . Arabian Writer Prince Houssain would not honor the feast with his presence ; he could scarcely endure to see the princess in the arms of Prince Ali , who , he said , did not deserve her better or love her more than himself . He left the court , and , renouncing all right of succession to the crown , turned dervish , and put himself under the discipline of a famous sheik , who had gained a reputation for his exemplary life , and had taken up his abode , together with his disciples , whose number was great , in an agreeable solitude . Prince Ahmed did not assist at Prince Ali 's and the Princess Nouronnihar 's wedding , any more than his brother Houssain , but did not renounce the world as he had done . He could not imagine what had become of his arrow , so he stole away from his attendants , and resolved to search for it , that he might not have anything to reproach himself with . With this intention , he went to the place where the PrincesS Houssain 's and Ali 's were gathered up , and going straight forward from thence , looked carefully on both sides of him . He went so far , that at last he began to think his labor was in vain ; yet he could not help going forwards , till he came to some steep , craggy rocks , which would have obliged him to return , had he been ever so anxious to proceed . They were situated in a barren country , about four leagues distant from whence he set out . When Prince Ahmed came near these rocks , he perceived an arrow , which he picked up , looked earnestly at it , and was in the greatest astonishment to find it was the same he shot . ` Certainly , ' said he to himself , ` neither I nor any man living could shoot an arrow so far ' ; and finding it laid flat , not sticking into the ground , he judged that it had rebounded from the rock . ` There must be some mystery in this , ' said he to himself again , ` and it may be to my advantage . Perhaps fortune , to make me amends for depriving me of what I thought the greatest happiness of my life , may have reserved a greater blessing for my comfort . ' As these rocks were full of sharp points and crevices between them , the prince , full of these thoughts , entered a cavity , and looking about , cast his eyes on an iron door , which seemed to have no lock . He feared it was fastened ; but pushing against it , it opened , and discovered an easy descent , but no steps . He walked down with his arrow in his hand . At first he thought he was going into a dark place , but presently a quite different light succeeded that which he had come out of . Coming upon a spacious square , fifty or sixty paces distant , he perceived a magnificent palace ; but he had not time to look at it , for at the same moment a lady of majestic air , and of a beauty to which the richness of her clothes and the jewels which adorned her person added nothing , advanced as far as the porch , attended by a troop of ladies , of whom it was difficult to distinguish which was the mistress . As soon as Prince Ahmed perceived the lady , he hastened to pay his respects ; and the lady , on her part , seeing him coming , was beforehand with him . Raising her voice , she said , ` Come near , Prince Ahmed ; you are welcome . ' It was no small surprise to the prince to hear himself named in a palace he had never heard of , though so near his father 's capital , and he could not comprehend how he should be known to a lady who was a stranger to him . At last he returned the lady 's salutation , by throwing himself at her feet , and rising up again , said to her , ` Madam , I return you a thousand thanks for welcoming me to a place where I had reason to believe my imprudent curiosity had made me penetrate too far . But , madam , may I , without being guilty of rudeness , presume to ask you how you know me ? and why you , who live in the same neighborhood should be so little known by me ? ' ` Prince , ' said the lady , ` let us go into the hall ; there I will gratify your request . ' After these words , the lady led Prince Ahmed into the hall , the noble structure of which , and the gold and azure which embellished the dome , and the inestimable richness of the furniture , appeared to him so wonderful that he had never in his life beheld anything like it , and believed that nothing was to be compared to it . ` I can assure you , ' replied the lady , ` that this is but a small part of my palace , and you will say so when you have seen all the apartments . ' Then she sat down on a sofa ; and when the prince at her entreaty had seated himself , she said , ` You are surprised , you say , that I should know you , and not be known by you ; but you will no longer be surprised when I inform you who I am . You can not be ignorant that the world is inhabited by genies as well as men : I am the daughter of one of the most powerful and distinguished of these genies , and my name is Pari Banou : therefore I know you , the sultan your father , the princes your brothers , and the Princess Nouronnihar . I am no stranger to your love or your travels , of which I could tell you all the circumstances , since it was I myself who exposed for sale the artificial apple which you bought at Samarcand , the carpet which Prince Houssain met with at Bisnagar , and the tube which Prince Ali brought from Schiraz . This is sufficient to let you know that I am not unacquainted with anything that relates to you . The only thing I have to add is , that you seemed to me worthy of a still better fortune than that of marrying the Princess Nouronnihar . I was present when you drew your arrow , and foresaw it would not go beyond Prince Houssain 's . I took it in the air , and made it strike against the rocks near which you found it . It is in your power to avail yourself of this favourable opportunity . ' As the fairy Pari Banou pronounced these words Prince Ahmed began to consider that the Princess Nouronnihar could never be his , and that the fairy Pari Banou excelled her infinitely in beauty and agreeableness , and , so far as he could judge from the magnificence of the palace where she resided , in immense riches . ` Madam , ' replied he , ` should I , all my life , have had the happiness of being your slave , I should think myself the happiest of men . Pardon me my boldness , and do not refuse to admit into your court a prince who is entirely devoted to you . ' ` Prince , ' answered the fairy , ` as I have been a long time my own mistress , and am not dependent on my parents ' consent , it is not as a slave that I would admit you into my court , but as my husband , pledging your faith to me . I am , as I said , mistress here ; and must add , that the same customs are not observed among fairies as among other ladies . ' Prince Ahmed made no answer , but was so full of gratitude that he thought he could not express it better than by coming to kiss the hem of her garment . ` Then , ' answered the fairy , ` you are my husband , and I am your wife . But as I suppose , ' continued she , ` that you have eaten nothing to-day , a slight repast shall be served up for you while preparations are making for our wedding feast this evening , and then I will show you the apartments of my palace , and you shall judge if this hall is the smallest part of it . ' Some of the fairy 's women who came into the hall with them , and guessed her intentions , immediately went out , and returned presently with some excellent meat and wine . When Prince Ahmed had eaten and drunk as much as he wanted , the fairy Pari Banou took him through all the rooms , where he saw diamonds , rubies , emeralds , and all sorts of fine jewels , intermixed with pearls , agate , jasper , porphyry , and all kinds of the most precious marbles ; not to mention the richness of the furniture , everything was in such profusion , that the prince acknowledged that there could not be anything in the world that could come up to it . ` Prince , ' said the fairy , ` if you admire so much my palace , which is indeed very beautiful , what would you say to the palaces of the chiefs of our genies , which are much more beautiful , spacious , and magnificent ? I could also charm you with my garden ; but we will leave that till another time . Night draws near , and it will be time for supper . ' The next hall into which the fairy led the prince , where the cloth was laid for the feast , was the only room the prince had not seen , and it was not in the least inferior to the others . He admired the infinite number of wax candles perfumed with amber which formed an agreeable and pleasant sight . A large sideboard was set out with all sorts of gold plate , so finely wrought that the workmanship was much more valuable than the weight of the gold . Several beautiful women richly dressed , whose voices were ravishing , began a concert , accompanied with all kinds of the most harmonious instruments he had ever heard . When they had sat down to table , the fairy Pari Banou took care to help Prince Ahmed to most delicious meats , which the prince had never heard of , but found so nice that he commended them in the highest terms , saying that they far surpassed those among men . He found also the same excellence in the wines , which neither he nor the fairy tasted till the dessert was served up , which consisted of the choicest sweetmeats and fruits . After the dessert , the fairy Pari Banou and Prince Ahmed rose from the table , which was immediately carried away , and sat on a sofa with cushions of fine silk , curiously embroidered with all sorts of large flowers , at their backs , and a great number of genie and fairies danced before them . The days following the wedding were a continual feast , which the fairy Pari Banou , who could do it with the utmost ease , knew how to diversify by new dishes , new concerts , new dances , new shows , and new diversions ; which were all so extraordinary , that Prince Ahmed , if he had lived a thousand years among men , could not have imagined . At the end of six months , Prince Ahmed , who always loved and honored the sultan his father , felt a great desire to know how he was ; and as that desire could not be satisfied without his absenting himself to go and hear it in person , he mentioned it to the fairy , and desired she would give him leave . This discourse alarmed the fairy , and made her fear it was only an excuse to leave her . ` My queen , ' replied the prince , ` if you are offended at the leave I asked , I entreat you to forgive me , and I will make all the reparation I can . I did not do it with any intention of displeasing you , but from a motive of respect towards my father , whom I wish to free from the affliction in which my long absence must have overwhelmed him ; indeed I have reason to think he believes me dead . ' ` Prince , ' said she , ` I am so fully convinced that I can depend upon your sincerity , that I grant you leave to go , on condition that your absence shall not be long . ' Prince Ahmed would have thrown himself at the fairy 's feet , to show his gratitude ; but she prevented him . ` Prince , ' said she , ` go when you please ; but first do not take it amiss if I give you some advice how you shall conduct yourself where you are going . First , I do not think it proper for you to tell the sultan your father of our marriage , nor what I am , nor the place where you are settled . Beg him to be satisfied with knowing that you are happy , and that you desire no more ; and let him know that the sole end of your visit is to make him easy about your fate . ' She appointed twenty horsemen , well mounted and equipped , to attend him . When all was ready , Prince Ahmed took leave of the fairy , embraced her , and renewed his promise to return soon . Then his horse , which was as beautiful a creature as any in the Sultan of the Indies ' stables , was brought , and he mounted him with an extraordinary grace , which gave great pleasure to the fairy , and after he had bid her a last adieu , set out on his journey . As it was not a great way to his father 's capital , Prince Ahmed soon arrived there . The people , glad to see him again , received him with acclamations , and followed him in crowds to the sultan 's palace . The sultan received and embraced him with great joy ; complaining at the same time with a fatherly tenderness , of the affliction his long absence had been to him ; which he said was the more grievous , since as fortune had decided in favor of Prince Ali his brother , he was afraid he might have committed some act of despair . ` Sir , ' replied Prince Ahmed , ` your majesty knows that when I shot my arrow the most extraordinary thing that ever befell anybody happened to me , that in so large and level a plain it should not be possible to find my arrow . Though thus vanquished , I lost no time in vain complaints ; but to satisfy my perplexed mind , I gave my attendants the slip , and returned back again alone to look for my arrow . I sought all about the place where Prince Houssain 's and Prince Ali 's arrows were found , and where I imagined mine must have fallen ; but all my labor was in vain , until after having gone four leagues , to that part of the plain where it is bounded by rocks , I perceived an arrow . I ran and took it up , and knew it to be the same which I had shot . Far from thinking your majesty had done me any injustice in declaring for my brother Prince Ali , I interpreted what had happened to me quite otherwise , and never doubted but there was a mystery in it to my advantage ; the discovery of which I ought not to neglect , and which I found out without going further from the spot . But as to this mystery , I beg your majesty to let me remain silent , and that you will be satisfied to know from my own mouth that I am happy and contented . This was the only motive which brought me hither ; the only favor I ask of your majesty is to give me leave to come often and pay you my respects , and inquire after your health . ' ` Son , ' answered the Sultan of the Indies , ` I can not refuse you the leave you ask me ; but I would much rather you would resolve to stay with me . At least tell me where I may hear of you , if you should fail to come , or when I may think your presence necessary . ' ` Sir , ' replied Prince Ahmed , ` what your majesty asks of me is part of the mystery I spoke of . I beg of you to give me leave to remain silent on this head ; for I shall come so frequently where my duty calls , that I am afraid I shall sooner be thought troublesome than be accused of negligence in my duty . ' The Sultan of the Indies pressed Prince Ahmed no more ; but said to him , ` Son , I penetrate no further into your secrets , but leave you at your liberty . I can only tell you , that you could not do me a greater pleasure than to come and by your presence restore to me the joy I have not felt for a long time , and that you will always be welcome when you come . ' Prince Ahmed stayed but three days at the sultan his father 's court , and on the fourth returned to the fairy Pari Banou , who received him with great joy , as she did not expect him so soon . A month after Prince Ahmed 's return from paying a visit to his father , as the fairy Pari Banou had observed that since the time that the Prince gave her an account of his journey and his conversation with his father , in which he asked his leave to come and see him from time to time , he had never spoken of the sultan , as if there had been no such person in the world , whereas before he was always speaking of him , she said to him one day , ` Tell me , prince , have you forgotten the sultan your father ? Do you not remember the promise you made to go and see him from time to time ? For my part , I have not forgotten what you told me at your return , and put you in mind of it . Pay him another visit to-morrow , and after that go and see him once a month , without speaking to me , or waiting for my leave . I readily consent . ' Prince Ahmed went the next morning with the same attendants as before , but much finer , and himself more magnificently mounted , equipped , and dressed , and was received by the sultan with the same joy and satisfaction . For several months he constantly paid him visits , and always in a richer and more brilliant equipage . At last some viziers , the sultan 's favorites , who judged of Prince Ahmed 's grandeur and power by the figure he made , abused the liberty the sultan gave them of speaking to him , to make him jealous of his son . They represented to him that it was but common prudence to know where the prince had retired , and how he could afford to live at such a rate , since he had no revenue or income assigned him ; that he seemed to come to court only to brave him ; and that it was to be feared he might stir up the people 's favor and dethrone him . The Sultan of the Indies was so far from thinking that Prince Ahmed could be capable of so wicked a design as his favorites would make him believe , that he said to them , ` You are mistaken ; my son loves me , and I am assured of his tenderness and fidelity . Be it as it will , I do not believe my son Ahmed is so wicked as you would persuade me he is ; however , I am obliged to you for your good advice , and do not doubt that it proceeds from a good intention . ' The Sultan of the Indies said this that his favorites might not know the impression their hints had made on his mind . He was , however , so much alarmed that he resolved to have Prince Ahmed watched , unknown to his grand vizier . For this end he sent for a sorceress , who was introduced by a private door into his room . ` My son Ahmed comes to my court every month ; but I can not learn from him where he resides , and I do not wish to force his secret out of him ; but I believe you are capable of satisfying my curiosity , without letting him , or any of my court , know anything of the matter . You know that at present he is here with me , and is used to go away without taking leave of me , or any of my court . Go immediately out on the road , find out where he retires , and bring me word . ' The magician left the sultan , and knowing the place where Prince Ahmed found his arrow , went thither and hid herself near the rocks , so that nobody could see her . The next morning Prince Ahmed set out by daybreak , without taking leave either of the sultan or of any of his court , according to custom . The magician , seeing him coming , followed him with her eyes , till all of a sudden she lost sight of him and his attendants . The steepness of the rocks formed an insurmountable barrier to men , whether on horseback or on foot , so that the magician judged that there were but two ways ; the prince had retired either into some cavern , or into some place underground , the abode of genies or fairies . When she thought the prince and his attendants were out of sight , she came out of the place where she had hidden herself , and went direct to the hollow where she had seen them go in . She entered it , and proceeded to the spot where it terminated in many windings , looking carefully about on all sides . But notwithstanding all her diligence she could perceive no opening , nor the iron gate which Prince Ahmed discovered . For this door was to be seen by and opened to none but men , and only to men whose presence was agreeable to the fairy Pari Banou , and not at all to women . The magician , who saw it was in vain for her to search any further , was obliged to be satisfied with the discovery she had made , and returned to give the sultan an account . When she had told him what she had done , she added , ` Your majesty may easily understand , after what I have had the honor to tell you , that it will be no difficult matter to give you the satisfaction you desire concerning Prince Ahmed 's conduct . To do this , I only ask time , and that you will have patience , and give me leave to do it without inquiring what measures I intend to take . ' The sultan was very well pleased with the magician 's conduct , and said to her , ` Do as you think fit : I will wait patiently , ' and to encourage her , he made her a present of a diamond of great value , telling her it was only an earnest of the ample reward she should receive when she had done him that important service , which he left to her management . As Prince Ahmed , after he had obtained the fairy Pari Banou 's leave to go to the Sultan of the Indies ' court , never failed once a month , and the magician knew the time , she went a day or two before to the foot of the rock where she had lost sight of the prince and his attendants , and waited there with a plan she had formed . The next morning Prince Ahmed went out as usual at the iron gate with the same attendants as before , and passed by the magician , whom he knew not to be such . Seeing her lie with her head on the rock , complaining as if she were in great pain , he pitied her , turned his horse about and went and asked her what was the matter , and what he could do to relieve her . The artful sorceress , without lifting up her head , looked at the prince , and answered in broken words and sighs , as if she could hardly fetch her breath , that she was going to the city , but on the way thither was taken with so violent a fever that her strength failed her , and she was forced to stop and lie down , far from any habitation , and without any hope of assistance . ` Good woman , ' replied Prince Ahmed , ` you are not so far from help as you imagine . I am ready to assist you , and to convey you where you shall not only have all possible care taken of you , but where you will find a speedy cure ; only get up , and let one of my people take you . ' At these words , the magician , who pretended illness only to know where the prince lived , did not refuse the kind offer he made her so freely , and to show her acceptance rather by action than by word , she made many affected efforts to get up , pretending that her illness prevented her . At the same time two of the prince 's attendants alighted off their horses , helped her up , and set her behind another . They mounted their horses again , and followed the prince , who turned back to the iron gate , which was opened by one of his retinue who rode before . When he came into the outer court of the fairy 's palace , without dismounting , he sent to tell her he wanted to speak to her . The fairy Pari Banou came with all haste , not knowing what made Prince Ahmed return so soon . Not giving her time to ask him , he said , ` My princess , I desire you would have compassion on this good woman , ' pointing to the magician , who was taken off the horse by two of his retinue : ` I found her in the condition you see , and promised her the assistance she stands in need of . I commend her to your care , and am persuaded that you will not abandon her . ' The fairy Pari Banou , who had her eyes fixed upon the pretended sick woman all the time that the prince was talking , ordered two of the women who followed her to take her from the two men that held her up , and carry her into the palace , and take as much care of her as they could . Whilst the two women executed the fairy 's commands , she went up to Prince Ahmed , and whispering in his ear said , ` Prince , I commend your compassion , which is worthy of you , but give me leave to tell you that I am afraid it will be but ill rewarded . This woman is not so ill as she pretends to be ; and I am very much mistaken if she is not sent hither on purpose to cause you great trouble . But do not be concerned , let what will be devised against you ; be persuaded that I will deliver you out of all the snares that may be laid for you . Go and pursue your journey . ' This discourse of the fairy 's did not in the least alarm Prince Ahmed . ` My princess , ' said he , ` as I do not remember I ever did , or designed to do , anybody an injury , I can not believe anybody can have a thought of doing me one ; but if they have , I shall not forbear doing good whenever I have an opportunity . ' So saying , he took leave of the fairy , and set out again for his father 's capital , where he soon arrived , and was received as usual by the sultan , who restrained himself as much as possible , to disguise the trouble arising from the suspicions suggested by his favorites . In the meantime , the two women to whom the fairy Pari Banou had given her orders carried the magician into a very fine apartment , richly furnished . First they set her down upon a sofa , with her back supported with a cushion of gold brocade , while they made a bed , the quilt of which was finely embroidered with silk , the sheets of the finest linen , and the coverlid cloth of gold . When they had put her into bed -LRB-B- for the old sorceress pretended that her fever was so violent that she could not help herself in the least -RRB-B- , one of the women went out and soon returned again with a china cup in her hand full of a certain liquor , which she presented to the magician , while the other helped her to sit up . ` Drink this , ' said she , ` it is the water of the fountain of lions , and a sovereign remedy against all fevers whatsoever . You will find the effect of it in less than an hour 's time . ' The magician , to dissemble the better , took it after a great deal of entreaty , as if she was very much averse to having it , but at last taking the china cup , and shaking her head , as if she did great violence to herself , swallowed the liquor . When she had lain down again , the two women covered her up . ` Lie quiet , ' said she who brought her the china cup , ` and get a little sleep if you can ; we will leave you , and hope to find you perfectly cured when we come an hour hence . ' The magician , who came not to act a sick part long , but only to discover Prince Ahmed 's retreat , and what made him leave his father 's court , being fully satisfied in what she wanted to know , would willingly have declared that the potion had had its effects then , so great was her desire to return to the sultan , and inform him of the success of her commission ; but as she had been told that the potion did not operate immediately , she was forced to await the women 's return . The two women came again at the time they said they should , and found the magician up and dressed , and seated on the sofa ; when she saw them open the door she cried out , ` Oh , the admirable potion ! it has wrought its cure much sooner than you told me it would , and I have waited a long time with impatience , to desire you to take me to your charitable mistress to thank her for her kindness , for which I shall always be obliged to her . Being thus cured as by a miracle , I had rather not lose time , but continue my journey . ' The two women , who were fairies as well as their mistress , after they had told the magician how glad they were that she was cured so soon , walked before her , and conducted her through several apartments into a large hall , the most richly and magnificently furnished of all the palace . Pari Banou was seated in this hall , on a throne of massy gold , attended on each hand by a great number of beautiful fairies , all richly dressed . At the sight of so much majesty , the magician was so dazzled , that after she had prostrated herself before the throne , she could not open her lips to thank the fairy , as she proposed . However , Pari Banou saved her the trouble , and said to her , ` Good woman , I am glad I had the opportunity of obliging you , and to see you are able to pursue your journey . I will not detain you , but perhaps you may not be displeased to see my palace ; follow my women , and they will show it to you . ' The old sorceress , who had not power nor courage to say a word , prostrated herself a second time , with her head on the carpet that covered the foot of the throne , and so took her leave , and was conducted by the two fairies through all the apartments which were shown to Prince Ahmed on his first arrival there . But what surprised her most of all was , that the two fairies told her that all she saw and admired so much was a mere sketch of their mistress 's grandeur and riches , and that in the extent of her dominions she had so many palaces that they could not tell the number of them , all of different architecture , equally magnificent and superb . They led her at last to the iron gate at which Prince Ahmed brought her in , and after she had taken her leave of them , and thanked them for their trouble , they opened it , and wished her a pleasant journey . After the magician had gone a little way , she turned back again to observe the door and know it again , but all in vain , for , as was before observed , it was invisible to her and all other women . Except in this , she was very well satisfied with her work , and posted away to the sultan . When she came to the capital , she went by a great many by-ways to the private door of the palace . The sultan being informed of her arrival , sent for her into his apartment and perceiving a melancholy look on her countenance , he thought she had not succeeded , and said to her , ` By your looks I guess that you have not made the discovery I expected from you . ' ` Sir , ' replied the magician , ` your majesty must give me leave to represent that you ought not to judge by my looks whether or no I have acquitted myself well as regards the commands you were pleased to honor me with . The melancholy you observe proceeds from another cause than the want of success . ' Then the magician related to the Sultan of the Indies the whole story of all that happened from beginning to end . When the magician had ended , she said , ` What does your majesty think of these unheard-of riches of the fairy ? Perhaps you will say you rejoice at the good fortune of Prince Ahmed your son . For my part , sir , I beg of your majesty to forgive me if I take the liberty to say that I think otherwise , and that I shudder when I consider the misfortunes which may happen to you . And this is the cause of the melancholy which you perceived . I would believe that Prince Ahmed , by his own good disposition , is incapable of undertaking anything against your majesty ; but who can say that the fairy , by the influence she already has over him , may not inspire him with a dangerous design of dethroning your majesty , and seizing the crown of the Indies ? This is what your majesty ought to consider serious and of the utmost importance . ' Though the Sultan of the Indies was very sure that Prince Ahmed 's natural disposition was good , yet he could not help being uneasy at the remarks of the old sorceress , and said , ` I thank you for the pains you have taken , and your wholesome caution . I am so aware of the great importance it is to me , that I shall take advice upon it . ' He had been consulting with his favorites , when he was told of the magician 's arrival . He ordered her to follow him to them . He acquainted them with what he had learned , and communicated to them also the reason he had to fear the fairy 's influence over the prince , and asked them what measures they thought most proper to prevent so great a misfortune . One of the favorites , taking upon himself to speak for the rest , said , ` Your majesty knows who must be the author of this mischief . In order to prevent it , now that he is in your court , and in your power , you ought not to hesitate to put him under arrest : I will not say take away his life , for that would make too much noise ; but make him a close prisoner while he lives . ' This advice all the other favorites unanimously applauded . The magician , who thought it too violent , asked the sultan leave to speak , which being granted , she said , ` Sir , I am persuaded that the zeal of your councillors for your majesty 's interest makes them propose arresting Prince Ahmed : but they will not take it amiss if I suggest to your and their consideration , that if you arrest the prince , you must also detain his retinue . But they are all genies . Do they think it will be so easy to surprise , seize , and secure their persons ? Will they not disappear , by the property they possess of rendering themselves invisible , and transport themselves instantly to the fairy , and give her an account of the insult offered to her husband ? And can it be supposed she will let it go unrevenged ? But it would be better , if , by any other means which might not make so great a noise , the sultan could secure himself against any ill designs Prince Ahmed may have against him , and not involve his majesty 's honor . If his majesty has any confidence in my advice , as genies and fairies can do things impracticable to men , he will touch Prince Ahmed 's honor , and engage him , by means of the fairy , to procure certain advantages . For example , every time your majesty takes the field you are obliged to go to a great expense , not only in pavilions and tents for yourself and army , but likewise in mules and camels , and other beasts of burden , to carry their baggage . Might you not request him to use his interest with the fairy to procure you a tent which might be carried in a man 's hand , and which should be large enough to shelter your whole army ? ` I need say no more to your majesty . If the prince brings such a tent , you may make a great many other demands of the same nature , so that at last he may sink under the difficulties and the impossibility of executing them , however fertile in invention the fairy who has enticed him from you by her enchantments may be ; so that in time he will be ashamed to appear , and will be forced to pass the rest of his life with his fairy , excluded from any connection with this world ; and then your majesty will have nothing to fear , and can not be reproached with so detestable an action as the shedding of a son 's blood , or confining him in a prison for life . ' When the magician had finished her speech , the sultan asked his favorites if they had anything better to propose ; and finding them all silent , determined to follow the magician 's advice , as the most reasonable and the most suited to his mild manner of government . The next day , when the prince came into his father 's presence and had sat down by him , after a conversation on different subjects , the sultan said , ` Son , when you came and dispelled those clouds of melancholy which your long absence had brought upon me , you made the place you had chosen for your retreat a mystery to me . I was satisfied with seeing you again , and knowing that you were content with your condition , without wishing to penetrate into your secret , which I found you did not care I should . I know not what reason you had thus to treat a father . I know your good fortune ; I rejoice with you , and very much approve of your conduct in marrying a fairy so worthy of your love , and so rich and powerful , as I am informed . Powerful as I am , it was not possible for me to have procured so great a match for you . Now that you are raised to so high a rank as to be envied by everybody but a father like me , I not only desire you to preserve the good understanding we have lived in hitherto , but to use all your credit with your fairy to obtain for me her assistance when I want it . I therefore will make a trial this day . ` I am persuaded you could easily procure from her a pavilion that might be carried in a man 's hand , yet which would extend over my whole army ; especially when you let her know it is for me . Though it may be a difficult thing , she will not refuse you . All the world knows that fairies are capable of doing the most extraordinary things . ' Prince Ahmed never expected that the sultan his father would have asked a thing which , at first sight , appeared to him so difficult , not to say impossible . Though he knew not absolutely how great the power of genies and fairies was , he doubted whether it extended so far as to furnish a tent such as his father desired . Moreover , he had never asked anything like it of the fairy Pari Banou , but was satisfied with her continual kindness ; therefore he was in the greatest embarrassment what answer to make . At last he replied , ` If , sir , I have concealed from your majesty what happened to me and what course I took after finding my arrow , the reason was that I thought it was of no great importance to you to be informed of them ; and though I know not how this mystery has been revealed to you , I can not deny that your information is correct . I have married the fairy you speak of . I love her , and am persuaded she loves me . But I can say nothing as to the influence your majesty believes I have over her . It is what I have not yet made any experiment of or thought of , and should be very glad if you would dispense with my undertaking it , and let me enjoy the happiness of loving and being beloved with all the disinterestedness I proposed to myself . But the demand of a father is a command upon every child who , like me , thinks it his duty to obey him in everything . And though it is with the greatest reluctance imaginable , I will not fail to ask my wife the favor your majesty desires , but will not promise to obtain it ; and if I should not have the honor to come again to pay you my respects , that shall be the sign that I have not had success : but I desire you to forgive me beforehand , and consider that you yourself have reduced me to this extremity . ' ` Son , ' replied the Sultan of the Indies , ` I should be very sorry that what I ask of you should prevent my ever seeing you again . Go , only ask her . Think with yourself , that as you love her , you could refuse her nothing ; therefore , if she loves you , she will not deny your request . ' All this discourse of the Sultan of the Indies could not persuade Prince Ahmed , who would rather he had asked anything than the risk of displeasing his dear Pari Banou ; and so great was his vexation , that he left the court two days sooner than usual . When he returned , the fairy , to whom he had always before appeared with a cheerful countenance , asked him the reason of the alteration ; and finding that instead of answering her , he inquired after her health to avoid satisfying her , she said to him , ` I will answer your question when you have answered mine . ' The prince declined it a long time , protesting that nothing was the matter with him ; but the more he denied it , the more she pressed him , and said , ` I can not bear to see you in this condition : tell me what makes you so uneasy , that I may remove the cause of it , whatever it may be ; for it must be very extraordinary if it is out of my power . ' Prince Ahmed could not long withstand the fairy . ` Madam , ' said he , ` God prolong the sultan my father 's life , and bless him to the end of his days . I left him alive , and in perfect health : therefore that is not the cause of the melancholy you perceive in me . The sultan has imposed upon me the disagreeable task of worrying you . You know the care I have taken , with your approbation , to conceal from him my happiness at home with you . How he has been informed of it I can not tell . ' Here the fairy Pari Banou interrupted Prince Ahmed , and said , ` But I know . Remember what I told you of the woman who made you believe she was ill , on whom you took so much compassion . It is she who has acquainted the sultan your father with what you took so much care to hide from him . I told you that she was no more sick than you or I , for , after the two women whom I charged to take care of her had given her the water sovereign against all fevers , which , however , she had no occasion for , she pretended that the water had cured her , and was brought to take leave of me , that she might go sooner to give an account of the success of her undertaking . She was in so much haste that she would have gone away without seeing my palace , if I had not , by bidding my two women show it her , given her to understand that it was worth her seeing . But go on and tell me what is the necessity your father has imposed on you which has made you feel troublesome to me , which I desire you will be persuaded you can never be . ' ` Madam , ' pursued Prince Ahmed , ` you may have observed that hitherto I have never asked you any favor , for what , after the possession of so kind a wife , can I desire more ? I know how great your power is , but I have taken care not to make trial of it . Consider then , I beg you , that it is not me , but the sultan my father , who , indiscreetly , as I think , asks of you a pavilion large enough to shelter him , his court , and his army , from the violence of the weather , when he takes the field , and yet small enough for a man to carry in his hand . Once more remember it is not I , but the sultan my father who asks this favor . ' ` Prince , ' replied the fairy , smiling , ` I am sorry that so small a matter should disturb you , and make you so uneasy . I see plainly two things have contributed towards it : one is , the law you have imposed upon yourself , to be content with loving me and being beloved by me , and to deny yourself the liberty of asking me the least favor that might try my power . The other , I do not doubt , whatever you may say , was that you thought what your father asked of me was out of my power . As to the first , I commend you for it , and shall love you the better , if possible ; and for the second , I must tell you that what the sultan your father asks of me is a trifle ; and upon occasion , I can do much more difficult things . Therefore be easy , and persuaded that , far from feeling worried , I shall always take great pleasure in whatever you can desire me to do for your sake . ' Then the fairy sent for her treasurer , to whom she said ` Nourgihan ' -LRB-B- which was her name -RRB-B- , ` bring me the largest pavilion in my treasury . ' Nourgihan returned presently with a pavilion , which could not only be held but concealed in the palm of the hand when it was closed , and presented it to her mistress , who gave it to Prince Ahmed to look at . When Prince Ahmed saw the pavilion , which the fairy called the largest in her treasury , he fancied she was joking , and his surprise appeared in his face . Pari Banou burst out laughing . ` What ! Prince , ' cried she , ` do you think I jest with you ? You will see presently that I am in earnest . Nourgihan ' said she to her treasurer , taking the tent out of Prince Ahmed 's hands , ` go and set it up , that the prince may judge whether the sultan his father will think it large enough . ' The treasurer immediately went out from the palace , and carried it to such a distance that when she had set it up one end reached to the palace . The prince , so far from thinking it small , found it large enough to shelter two armies as numerous as that of the sultan his father ; and then said to Pari Banou , ` I ask my princess a thousand pardons for my incredulity : after what I have seen , I believe there is nothing impossible to you . ' ` You see , ' said the fairy , ` that the pavilion is larger than your father may have occasion for ; but you are to observe that it becomes larger or smaller , according to the army it is to cover , without being touched . ' The treasurer took down the tent again , reduced it to its first size , and brought it and put it into the prince 's hands . He took it , and next day mounted his horse and went with the usual attendants to the sultan his father . The sultan , who was persuaded that such a tent as he asked for was beyond all possibility , was in great surprise at the prince 's diligence . He took the tent and admired its smallness . But when he had set it up in the great plain , and found it large enough to shelter an army twice as large as he could bring into the field , his amazement was so great that he could not recover himself . As he thought this might be troublesome in use , Prince Ahmed told him that its size would always be proportionate to his army . To outward appearance the sultan expressed great obligation to the prince his son for so noble a present , desiring him to return his thanks to the fairy Pari Banou ; and to show what a value he set on it , he ordered it to be carefully laid up in his treasury . But within himself he became more jealous than ever ; considering that by the fairy 's assistance the prince his son might perform things that were infinitely above his own power , notwithstanding his greatness and riches ; and , therefore , more intent upon his ruin , he went to consult the magician again , who advised him to request the prince to bring him some of the water of the fountain of lions . In the evening , when the sultan was surrounded as usual by all his court , and the prince came to pay his respects among the rest , he said to him : ` Son , I have already expressed how much I am obliged to you for the present of the tent you have procured me , which I look upon as the most valuable thing in my treasury ; but you must do one thing more for me . I am informed that the fairy your wife makes use of a certain water , called the water of the fountain of lions , which cures all sorts of fevers , even the most dangerous ; and as I am perfectly sure that my health is dear to you , I do not doubt that you will ask her for a bottle of that water for me , and bring it me as a sovereign remedy , which I may make use of when I have occasion . Do me this service , and complete the duty of a good son towards a tender father . ' Prince Ahmed , who had believed that the sultan his father would have been satisfied with so singular and useful a tent as that which he had brought , and that he would not have imposed any new task upon him which might hazard the fairy 's displeasure ; was thunderstruck at this new request , notwithstanding the assurance she had given him of granting him whatever lay in her power . After a long silence , he said , ` I beg of your majesty to be assured that there is nothing I would not undertake to prolong your life , but I wish it might not be by means of my wife . For this reason I dare not promise to bring the water . All I can do is to assure you I will ask her ; but it will be with as great reluctance as when I asked for the tent . ' The next morning Prince Ahmed returned to the fairy Pari Banou , and related to her sincerely and faithfully all that had passed at the sultan his father 's court , from the giving of the tent , which he told her he received with the utmost gratitude , to the new request he had charged him to make , and when he had done , he added : ` but , my princess , I only tell you this as a plain account of what passed between me and my father . I leave you to your own discretion to gratify or reject this new desire . It shall be as you please . ' ` No , no , ' replied the fairy Pari Banou , ` whatever advice the magician can give him -LRB-B- for I see that he hearkens to her -RRB-B- , he shall find no fault with you or me . There is a great deal of wickedness in this demand , as you will understand by what I am going to tell you . The fountain of lions is situated in the middle of a court of a great castle , the entrance into which is guarded by four fierce lions , two of which sleep while the other two are awake alternately . But let not that frighten you . I will give you means to pass by them without any danger . ' The fairy Pari Banou was at that time hard at work with her needle ; and as she had by her several balls of thread , she took up one , and presenting it to Prince Ahmed , said , ` First take this ball of thread ; I will tell you presently the use of it . In the second place , you must have two horses ; one you will ride yourself , and the other you will lead , which must be loaded with a sheep cut into four quarters , and killed to-day . In the third place , you must be provided with a bottle , which I will give you , to bring the water in . Set out early to-morrow morning , and when you have passed the iron gate , throw before you the ball of thread , which will roll till it comes to the gates of the castle . When it stops , as the gates will be open , you will see the four lions . The two that are awake will , by their roaring , wake the other two . Be not frightened , but throw each of them a quarter of the sheep , and then clap spurs to your horse , and ride to the fountain . Fill your bottle without alighting , and then return with the same speed . The lions will be so busy eating that they will let you pass . ' Prince Ahmed set out the next morning at the time appointed by the fairy , and followed her directions carefully . When he arrived at the gates of the castle , he distributed the quarters of the sheep among the four lions , and passing through the midst of them with haste , got to the fountain , filled his bottle , and returned as safe and sound as he went . When he was a little distance from the castle gates , he turned round ; and perceiving two of the lions coming after him , he drew his sabre , and prepared for defense . But as he went forward , he saw one of them turned off the road , and showed by his head and tail that he did not come to do him any harm , but only to go before him , and that the other stayed behind to follow . He therefore put his sword again into its scabbard . Guarded in this manner he arrived at the capital of the Indies ; but the lions never left him till they had conducted him to the gates of the sultan 's palace ; after which they returned the way they came , though not without frightening all that saw them , who fled or hid themselves , though they walked gently , and showed no signs of fierceness . A great many officers came to attend the prince while he dismounted , and conducted him to the apartments of the sultan , who was at that time conversing with his favorites . He approached the throne , laid the bottle at the sultan 's feet , kissed the rich carpet which covered the footstool , and rising , said , ` I have brought you , sir , the health-giving water which your majesty so much desired to keep in your treasury ; but at the same time wish you such health that you may never have occasion to make use of it . ' After the prince had finished speaking , the sultan placed him on his right hand , and then said , ` Son , I am very much obliged to you for this valuable present ; also for the great danger you have exposed yourself to upon my account , which I have been informed of by the magician who knows the fountain of lions ; but do me the pleasure , ' continued he , ` to tell me by what incredible power you have been preserved . ' ` Sir , ' replied Prince Ahmed , ` I have no share in the compliment your majesty is pleased to make me ; all the honor is due to the fairy my wife ; I merely followed her good advice . ' The sultan showed outwardly all the demonstrations of joy , but secretly became more and more jealous , retired into an inner apartment , and sent for the magician . After conferring with her , the sultan next day said to the prince , in the midst of all his courtiers , ` Son , I have one thing more to ask of you ; after which , I shall expect nothing more from your obedience , nor your influence with your wife . This request is , to bring me a man not above a foot and a half high , whose beard is thirty feet long , who carries upon his shoulders a bar of iron of five hundredweight which he uses as a quarterstaff , and who can speak . ' Prince Ahmed , who did not believe that there was such a man in the world as his father described , would gladly have excused himself ; but the sultan persisted in his demand , and told him that the fairy could do more incredible things . Next day the prince returned to the subterranean kingdom of Pari Banou , to whom he told his father 's new demand , which , he said , he looked upon as more impossible than the first two ; ` for , ' added he , ` I can not imagine that there is or can be such a man in the world : either he has a mind to try whether I am silly enough to go and seek him ; or if there is such a man , he seeks my ruin . How can he suppose that I should get hold of a man so small , armed as he describes ? What arms could I make use of to reduce him to submission ? ' ` Do not affright yourself , prince , ' replied the fairy ; ` you ran a risk in fetching the water of the fountain of lions for your father ; but there is no danger in finding this man . It is my brother , Schaibar , who is so far from being like me , though we both had the same father , that he is of so violent a nature that nothing can prevent his giving gory marks of his resentment for a slight offence ; yet , on the other hand , he is so good as to oblige any one in whatever they desire . He is made exactly as the sultan your father has described him ; and he has no other arms than a bar of iron five hundred pounds in weight , without which he never stirs , and which makes him respected . I will send for him , and you shall judge of the truth of what I tell you ; and prepare not to be frightened when you see him . ' ` What ! my queen , ' replied Prince Ahmed , ` do you say Schaibar is your brother ? Let him be ever so ugly or deformed , I shall love and honor him , and consider him as my nearest relation . ' The fairy ordered a gold chafing-dish to be set with a fire in it under the porch of her palace , with a box of the same metal . Taking some incense out of this , and throwing it into the fire , there arose a thick cloud of smoke . Some moments after , the fairy said to Prince Ahmed , ` Prince , here comes my brother ; do you see him ? ' The prince immediately perceived Schaibar , who was but a foot and a half high , coming gravely with his heavy bar on his shoulder ; his beard , thirty feet long , supported itself before him , and a pair of thick moustaches were tucked up to his ears , almost covering his face : his eyes were very small , like a pig 's , and sunk deep in his head , which was of an enormous size , and on which he wore a pointed cap : besides all this , he had a hump behind and before . If Prince Ahmed had not known that Schaibar was Pari Banou 's brother , he would not have been able to look at him without fear ; but knowing beforehand who he was , he waited for him with the fairy , and received him without the least concern . Schaibar , as he came forward , looked at the prince with an eye that might have chilled his soul in his body , and asked Pari Banou who that man was . To which she replied : ` He is my husband , brother ; his name is Ahmed ; he is son to the Sultan of the Indies . The reason why I did not invite you to my wedding was that I was unwilling to divert you from the expedition you were engaged in , and from which I heard with pleasure that you returned victorious ; on his account I have taken the liberty now to send for you . ' At these words , Schaibar , looking at Prince Ahmed with a favourable eye , which however diminished neither his fierceness nor his savage look , said , ` Is there anything , sister , in which I can serve him ? he has only to speak . It is enough for me that he is your husband . ' ` The sultan his father , ' replied Pari Banou , ` has a curiosity to see you , and I desire he may be your guide to the Sultan 's court . ' ` He need but lead the way ; I will follow him , ' replied Schaibar . ` Brother , ' replied Pari Banou , ` it is too late to go to-day , therefore stay till to-morrow morning ; and in the meantime , as it is desirable that you should know all that has passed between the Sultan of the Indies and Prince Ahmed since our marriage , I will tell you this evening . ' Next morning , after Schaibar had been informed of all that was proper for him to know , he set out with Prince Ahmed , who was to present him to the sultan . When they arrived at the gates of the capital , the people no sooner saw Schaibar than they ran and hid themselves in their shops and houses , and shut their doors ; while others took to their heels , and communicated their fear to all they met , who did not wait to look behind them , but ran too ; insomuch that Schaibar and Prince Ahmed , as they went along , found all the streets and squares deserted , till they came to the palace , where the porters , instead of preventing Schaibar from entering , also ran away ; so that the prince and he advanced without any obstacle to the council-hall , where the sultan was seated on his throne giving audience . Here likewise the officers , at the approach of Schaibar , abandoned their posts . Schaibar , carrying his head erect , went fiercely up to the throne , without waiting to be introduced by Prince Ahmed , and accosted the Sultan of the Indies in these words : ` You have asked for me , see , here I am : what do you want with me ? ' The sultan , instead of answering , clapt his hands before his eyes , and turned away his head , to avoid the sight of so terrible an object . Schaibar was so much provoked at this uncivil and rude reception , after the Sultan had given him the trouble to come so far , that he instantly lifted up his iron bar , and saying , ` Speak then , ' let it fall on his head , and killed him before Prince Ahmed could intercede in his behalf . All that he could do was to prevent his killing the grand vizier , who sat not far from him on his right hand , representing to him that he had always given the sultan his father good advice . ` These are they then , ' said Schaibar , ` who gave him bad advice ; ' and as he pronounced these words , he killed all the other viziers on the right and left , flatterers and favorites of the sultan , who were Prince Ahmed 's enemies . Every time he struck , he killed some one or other , and none escaped but they who , not rendered motionless by fear , saved themselves by flight . When this terrible execution was over , Schaibar came out of the council-hall into the midst of the court-yard with the iron bar on his shoulder , and looking at the grand vizier , who owed his life to Prince Ahmed , he said , ` I know there is a certain sorceress , who is a greater enemy of the prince my brother-in-law than all those base favorites I have chastised ; let her be brought to me at once . ' The grand vizier immediately sent for her , and as soon as she was brought , Schaibar said , knocking her down with his iron bar , ` Take the reward of thy pernicious counsel , and learn to feign illness again : ' and left her dead on the spot . After this he said , ` This is not enough ; I will treat the whole city in the same manner , if they do not immediately acknowledge Prince Ahmed my brother-in-law for their sultan , and Sultan of the Indies . ' Then all that were present made the air ring with the repeated acclamations of ` Long life to Sultan Ahmed ' ; and immediately afterwards he was proclaimed throughout the whole town Schaibar made him be clothed in the royal vestments , installed him on the throne , and after he had made all do homage and fidelity to him , went and fetched his sister Pari Banou , whom he brought with great pomp , and made her acknowledged Sultaness of the Indies . As for Prince Ali and Princess Nouronnihar , as they had no hand in the conspiracy against Prince Ahmed , nor knew of any such conspiracy , Prince Ahmed assigned them a considerable province , with its capital , where they spent the rest of their lives . Afterwards he sent an officer to Prince Houssain to acquaint him with the change , and to make him an offer of whichever province he liked best ; but that prince thought himself so happy in his solitude that he bade the officer return the Sultan his brother thanks for his kindness , assuring him of his submission ; and saying that the only favor he desired was leave to live retired in the place he had made choice of for his retreat .