SOUP ON A SAUSAGE-PEG . H. C. Andersen `` That was a remarkably fine dinner yesterday , '' observed an old Mouse of the female sex to another who had not been at the festive gathering . `` I sat number twenty-one from the old mouse king , so that I was not badly placed . Should you like to hear the order of the banquet ? The courses were very well arranged -- mouldy bread , bacon-rind , tallow candle , and sausage -- and then the same dishes over again from the beginning : it was just as good as having two banquets in succession . There was as much joviality and agreeable jesting as in the family circle . Nothing was left but the pegs at the ends of the sausages . And the discourse turned upon these ; and at last the expression , ` Soup on sausage-rinds , ' or , as they have the proverb in the neighbouring country , ` Soup on a sausage-peg , ' was mentioned . Every one had heard the proverb , but no one had ever tasted the sausage-peg soup , much less prepared it . A capital toast was drunk to the inventor of the soup , and it was said he deserved to be a relieving officer . Was not that witty ? And the old mouse king stood up , and promised that the young female mouse who could best prepare that soup should be his queen ; and a year was allowed for the trial . '' `` That was not at all bad , '' said the other Mouse ; `` but how does one prepare this soup ? '' `` Ah , how is it prepared ? That is just what all the young female mice , and the old ones too , are asking . They would all very much like to be queen ; but they do n't want to take the trouble to go out into the world to learn how to prepare the soup , and that they would certainly have to do . But every one has not the gift of leaving the family circle and the chimney corner . In foreign parts one ca n't get cheese-rinds and bacon every day . No , one must bear hunger , and perhaps be eaten up alive by a cat . '' Such were probably the considerations by which the majority were deterred from going out into the wide world and gaining information . Only four mice announced themselves ready to depart . They were young and brisk , but poor . Each of them wished to proceed to one of the four quarters of the globe , and then it would become manifest which of them was favored by fortune . Every one took a sausage-peg , so as to keep in mind the object of the journey . The stiff sausage-peg was to be to them as a pilgrim 's staff . It was at the beginning of May that they set out , and they did not return till the May of the following year ; and then only three of them appeared . The fourth did not report herself , nor was there any intelligence of her , though the day of trial was close at hand . `` Yes , there 's always some drawback in even the pleasantest affair , '' said the Mouse King . And then he gave orders that all mice within a circuit of many miles should be invited . They were to assemble in the kitchen , where the three traveled mice would stand up in a row , while a sausage-peg , shrouded in crape , was set up as a memento of the fourth , who was missing . No one was to proclaim his opinion till the mouse king had settled what was to be said . And now let us hear . _ What the first little Mouse had seen and learned in her travels . _ `` When I went out into the wide world , '' said the little Mouse , `` I thought , as many think at my age , that I had already learned everything ; but that was not the case . Years must pass before one gets so far . I went to sea at once . I went in a ship that steered towards the north . They had told me that the ship 's cook must know how to manage things at sea ; but it is easy enough to manage things when one has plenty of sides of bacon , and whole tubs of salt pork , and mouldy flour . One has delicate living on board ; but one does not learn to prepare soup on a sausage-peg . We sailed along for many days and nights ; the ship rocked fearfully , and we did not get off without a wetting . When we at last reached the port to which we were bound , I left the ship ; and it was high up in the far north . `` It is a wonderful thing , to go out of one 's own corner at home , and sail in a ship , where one has a sort of corner too , and then suddenly to find oneself hundreds of miles away in a strange land . I saw great pathless forests of pine and birch , which smelt so strong that I sneezed , and thought of sausage . There were great lakes there too . When I came close to them the waters were quite clear , but from a distance they looked black as ink . Great swans floated upon them : I thought at first they were spots of foam , they lay so still ; but then I saw them walk and fly , and I recognized them . They belong to the goose family -- one can see that by their walk ; for no one can deny his parentage . I kept with my own kind . I associated with the forest and field mice , who , by the way , know very little , especially as regards cookery , though this was the very subject that had brought me abroad . The thought that soup might be boiled on a sausage-peg was such a startling statement to them , that it flew at once from mouth to mouth through the whole forest . They declared the problem could never be solved ; and little did I think that there , in the very first night , I should be initiated into the method of its preparation . It was in the height of summer , and that , the mice said , was the reason why the wood smelt so strongly , and why the herbs were so fragrant , and the lakes so transparent and yet so dark , with their white swimming swans . `` On the margin of the wood , among three or four houses , a pole as tall as the mainmast of a ship had been erected , and from its summit hung wreaths and fluttering ribbons : this was called a maypole . Men and maids danced round the tree , and sang as loudly as they could , to the violin of the fiddler . There were merry doings at sundown and in the moonlight , but I took no part in them -- what has a little mouse to do with a May dance ? I sat in the soft moss and held my sausage-peg fast . The moon threw its beams especially upon one spot , where a tree stood , covered with moss so exceedingly fine , I may almost venture to say it was as fine as the skin of the mouse king ; but it was of a green color , and that is a great relief to the eye . `` All at once , the most charming little people came marching forth . They were only tall enough to reach to my knee . They looked like men , but were better proportioned : they called themselves elves , and had delicate clothes on , of flower leaves trimmed with the wings of flies and gnats , which had a very good appearance . Directly they appeared , they seemed to be seeking for something -- I know not what ; but at last some of them came towards me , and the chief pointed to my sausage-peg , and said , ` That is just such a one as we want -- it is pointed -- it is capital ! ' and the longer he looked at my pilgrim 's staff the more delighted he became . '' ` I will lend it , ' I said , ` but not to keep . ' '' ` Not to keep ! ' they all repeated ; and they seized the sausage-peg , which I gave up to them , and danced away to the spot where the fine moss grew ; and here they set up the peg in the midst of the green . They wanted to have a maypole of their own , and the one they now had seemed cut out for them ; and they decorated it so that it was beautiful to behold . `` First , little spiders spun it round with gold thread , and hung it all over with fluttering veils and flags , so finely woven , bleached so snowy white in the moonshine , that they dazzled my eyes . They took colors from the butterfly 's wing , and strewed these over the white linen , and flowers and diamonds gleamed upon it , so that I did not know my sausage-peg again : there is not in all the world such a maypole as they had made of it . And now came the real great party of elves . They were quite without clothes , and looked as genteel as possible ; and they invited me to be present at the feast ; but I was to keep at a certain distance , for I was too large for them . `` And now began such music ! It sounded like thousands of glass bells , so full , so rich , that I thought the swans were singing . I fancied also that I heard the voice of the cuckoo and the blackbird , and at last the whole forest seemed to join in . I heard children 's voices , the sound of bells , and the song of birds ; the most glorious melodies -- and all came from the elves ' maypole , namely , my sausage-peg . I should never have believed that so much could come out of it ; but that depends very much upon the hands into which it falls . I was quite touched . I wept , as a little mouse may weep , with pure pleasure . `` The night was far too short ; but it is not longer up yonder at that season . In the morning dawn the breeze began to blow , the mirror of the forest lake was covered with ripples , and all the delicate veils and flags fluttered away in the air . The waving garlands of spider 's web , the hanging bridges and balustrades , and whatever else they are called , flew away as if they were nothing at all . Six elves brought me back my sausage-peg , and asked me at the same time if I had any wish that they could gratify ; so I asked them if they could tell me how soup was made on a sausage-peg . '' ` How _ we _ do it ? ' asked the chief of the elves , with a smile . ` Why , you have just seen it . I fancy you hardly knew your sausage-peg again ? ' '' ` You only mean that as a joke , '' I replied . And then I told them in so many words , why I had undertaken a journey , and what great hopes were founded on the operation at home . ` What advantage , ' I asked , ` can accrue to our mouse king , and to our whole powerful state , from the fact of my having witnessed all this festivity ? I can not shake it out of the sausage-peg , and say , `` Look , here is the peg , now the soup will come . '' That would be a dish that could only be put on the table when the guests had dined . ' -LRB-B- Illustration : THE ELVES APPLY FOR THE LOAN OF THE SAUSAGE-PEG . aaaaa -RRB-B- aaa `` Then the elf dipped his little finger into the cup of a blue violet , and said to me : '' ` See here ! I will anoint your pilgrim 's staff ; and when you go back to your country , and come to the castle of the mouse king , you have but to touch him with the staff , and violets will spring forth and cover its whole surface , even in the coldest winter-time . And so I think I 've given you something to carry home , and a little more than something ! ' '' But before the little Mouse said what this `` something more '' was , she stretched her staff out towards the king , and in very truth the most beautiful bunch of violets burst forth ; and the scent was so powerful , that the mouse king incontinently ordered the mice who stood nearest the chimney to thrust their tails into the fire and create a smell of burning , for the odour of the violets was not to be borne , and was not of the kind he liked . `` But what was the ` something more , ' of which you spoke ? '' asked the Mouse King . `` Why , '' the little Mouse answered , `` I think it is what they call effect ! '' and herewith she turned the staff round , and lo ! there was not a single flower to be seen upon it ; she only held the naked skewer , and lifted this up , as a musical conductor lifts his _ baton _ . '' ` VioletsS , ' the elf said to me , ` are for sight , and smell , and touch . Therefore it yet remains to provide for hearing and taste ! ' '' And now the little Mouse began to beat time ; and music was heard , not such as sounded in the forest among the elves , but such as is heard in the kitchen . There was a bubbling sound of boiling and roasting ; and all at once it seemed as if the sound were rushing through every chimney , and pots and kettles were boiling over . The fire-shovel hammered upon the brass kettle , and then , on a sudden , all was quiet again . They heard the quiet subdued song of the tea-kettle , and it was wonderful to hear -- they could not quite tell if the kettle were beginning to sing or leaving off ; and the little pot simmered , and the big pot simmered , and neither cared for the other : there seemed to be no reason at all in the pots . And the little Mouse flourished her _ baton _ more and more wildly ; the pots foamed , threw up large bubbles , boiled over , and the wind roared and whistled through the chimney . Oh ! it became so terrible , that the little Mouse lost her stick at last . `` That was a heavy soup ! '' said the Mouse King . `` Shall we not soon hear about the preparation ? '' `` That was all , '' said the little Mouse , with a bow . `` That is all ! Then we should be glad to hear what the next has to relate , '' said the Mouse King . _ What the second little Mouse had to tell . _ `` I was born in the palace library , '' said the second Mouse . `` I and several members of our family never knew the happiness of getting into the dining-room , much less into the store-room ; on my journey , and here to-day , are the only times I have seen a kitchen . We have indeed often been compelled to suffer hunger in the library , but we got a good deal of knowledge . The rumor penetrated even to us , of the royal prize offered to those who could cook soup upon a sausage-peg ; and it was my old grandmother who thereupon ferreted out a manuscript , which she certainly could not read , but which she had heard read out , and in which it was written : ` Those who are poets can boil soup upon a sausage-peg . ' She asked me if I were a poet . I felt quite innocent on the subject , and then she told me I must go out , and manage to become one . I again asked what was requisite in that particular , for it was as difficult for me to find that out , as to prepare the soup ; but grandmother had heard a good deal of reading , and she said that three things were especially necessary : ` Understanding , imagination , feeling -- if you can manage to obtain these three , you are a poet , and the sausage-wide peg affair will be quite easy to you . ' `` And I went forth , and marched towards the west , away into the world , to become a poet . `` Understanding is the most important thing in every affair . I knew that , for the two other things are not held in half such respect , and consequently I went out first to seek understanding . Yes , where does he dwell ? ` Go to the ant and be wise , ' said the great King of the Jews ; I knew that from my library experience ; and I never stopped till I came to the first great ant-hill , and there I placed myself on the watch , to become wise . `` The ants are a respectable people . They are understanding itself . Everything with them is like a well-worked sum , that comes right . To work and to lay eggs , they say , is to live while you live , and to provide for posterity ; and accordingly that is what they do . They were divided into the clean and the dirty ants . The rank of each is indicated by a number , and the ant queen is number ONE ; and her view is the only correct one , she is the receptacle of all wisdom ; and that was important for me to know . She spoke so much , and it was all so clever , that it sounded to me like nonsense . She declared her ant-hill was the loftiest thing in the world ; though close by it grew a tree , which was certainly loftier , much loftier , that could not be denied , and therefore it was never mentioned . One evening an ant had lost herself upon the tree : she had crept up the stem -- not up to the crown , but higher than any ant had climbed until then ; and when she turned , and came back home , she talked of something far higher than the ant-hill that she had found in her travels ; but the other ants considered that an insult to the whole community , and consequently she was condemned to wear a muzzle , and to continual solitary confinement . But a short time afterwards another ant got on the tree , and made the same journey and the same discovery ; and this one spoke with emphasis , and indistinctly , they said ; and as , moreover , she was one of the pure ants and very much respected , they believed her ; and when she died they erected an egg-shell as a memorial of her , for they had a great respect for the sciences . I saw , '' continued the little Mouse , `` that the ants were always running to and fro with their eggs on their backs . One of them once dropped her egg ; she exerted herself greatly to pick it up again , but she could not succeed . Then two others came up , and helped her with all their might , insomuch that they nearly dropped their own eggs over it ; but then they certainly at once relaxed their exertions , for each should think of himself first -- the ant queen had declared that by so doing they exhibited at once heart and understanding . '' ` These two qualities , ' she said , ` place us ants on the highest step among all reasoning beings . Understanding is seen among us all in predominant measure , and I have the greatest share of understanding . ' And so saying , she raised herself on her hind-legs , so that she was easily to be recognized . I could not be mistaken , and I ate her up . We were to go to the ants to learn wisdom -- and I had got the queen ! `` I now proceeded nearer to the before-mentioned lofty tree . It was an oak , and had a great trunk , and a far-spreading top , and was very old . I knew that a living being dwelt here , a Dryad as it is called , who is born with the tree , and dies with it . I had heard about this in the library ; and now I saw an oak tree , and an oak girl . She uttered a piercing cry when she saw me so near . Like all females , she was very much afraid of mice ; and she had more ground for fear than others , for I might have gnawed through the stem of the tree on which her life depended . I accosted the maiden in a friendly and honest way , and bade her take courage . And she took me up in her delicate hand ; and when I had told her my reason for coming out into the wide world , she promised me that perhaps on that very evening I should have one of the two treasures of which I was still in quest . She told me that Phantasus , the genius of imagination , was her very good friend , that he was beautiful as the god of love , and that he rested many an hour under the leafy boughs of the tree , which then rustled more strongly than ever over the pair of them . He called her his dryad , she said , and the tree his tree , for the grand gnarled oak was just to his taste , with its root burrowing so deep in the earth , and the stem and crown rising so high out in the fresh air , and knowing the beating snow , and the sharp wind , and the warm sunshine as they deserve to be known . ` Yes , ' the Dryad continued , ` the birds sing aloft there in the branches , and tell each other of strange countries they have visited ; and on the only dead bough the stork has built a nest which is highly ornamental , and moreover , one gets to hear something of the land of the pyramids . All that is very pleasing to Phantasus ; but it is not enough for him : I myself must talk to him , and tell him of life in the woods , and must revert to my childhood , when I was little , and the tree such a delicate thing that a stinging-nettle overshadowed it -- and I have to tell everything , till now that the tree is great and strong . Sit you down under the green thyme , and pay attention ; and when Phantasus comes , I shall find an opportunity to pinch his wings , and to pull out a little feather . Take the pen -- no better is given to any poet -- and it will be enough for you ! ' `` And when Phantasus came the feather was plucked , and I seized it , '' said the little Mouse . `` I put it in water , and held it there till it grew soft . It was very hard to digest , but I nibbled it up at last . It is very easy to gnaw oneself into being a poet , though there are many things one must do . Now I had these two things , imagination and understanding , and through these I knew that the third was to be found in the library ; for a great man has said and written that there are romances , whose sole and single use is that they relieve people of their superfluous tears , and that they are , in fact , a sort of sponges sucking up human emotion . I remembered a few of these old books which had always looked especially palatable , and were much thumbed and very greasy , having evidently absorbed a great deal of feeling into themselves . `` I betook myself back to the library , and , so to speak , devoured a whole novel -- that is , the essence of it , the interior part , for I left the crust or binding . When I had digested this , and a second one in addition , I felt a stirring within me , and I ate a bit of a third romance , and now I was a poet . I said so to myself , and told the others also . I had headache , and chestache , and I ca n't tell what aches besides . I began thinking what kind of stories could be made to refer to a sausage-peg ; and many pegs , and sticks , and staves , and splinters came into my mind -- the ant queen must have had a particularly fine understanding . I remembered the man who took a white stick in his mouth , by which means he could render himself and the stick invisible ; I thought of stick hobby-horses , of ` stock rhymes , ' of ` breaking the staff ' over an offender , and Heaven knows of how many phrases more concerning sticks , stocks , staves , and pegs . All my thoughts ran upon sticks , staves , and pegs ; and when one is a poet -LRB-B- and I am a poet , for I have worked most terribly hard to become one -RRB-B- a person can make poetry on these subjects . I shall therefore be able to wait upon you every day with a poem or a history -- and that 's the soup I have to offer . '' `` Let us hear what the third has to say , '' was now the Mouse King 's command . `` Peep ! peep ! '' cried a small voice at the kitchen-door , and a little mouse -- it was the fourth of the mice who had contended for the prize , the one whom they looked upon as dead -- shot in like an arrow . She toppled the sausage-peg with the crape covering over in a moment . She had been running day and night , and had traveled on the railway , in the goods train , having watched her opportunity , and yet she had almost come too late . She pressed forward , looking very much rumpled , and she had lost her sausage-peg , but not her voice , for she at once took up the word , as if they had been waiting only for her , and wanted to hear none but her , and as if everything else in the world were of no consequence . She spoke at once , and spoke fully : she had appeared so suddenly , that no one found time to object to her speech or to her , while she was speaking . And let us hear what she said . -LRB-B- Illustration : THE GAOLER 'S GRANDDAUGHTER TAKES PITY ON THE LITTLE MOUSE . aaaaa -RRB-B- aaa _ What the fourth Mouse , who spoke before the third had spoken , had to tell . _ `` I betook myself immediately to the largest town , '' she said ; `` the name has escaped me -- I have a bad memory for names . From the railway I was carried , with some confiscated goods , to the council house , and when I arrived there I ran into the dwelling of the gaoler . The gaoler was talking of his prisoners , and especially of one who had spoken unconsidered words . These words had given rise to others , and these latter had been written down and recorded . '' ` The whole thing is soup on a sausage-peg , ' said the gaoler ; ` but the soup may cost him his neck . ' `` Now , this gave me an interest in the prisoner , '' continued the Mouse , `` and I watched my opportunity and slipped into his prison -- for there 's a mouse-hole to be found behind every locked door . The prisoner looked pale , and had a great beard , and bright sparkling eyes . The lamp flickered and smoked , but the walls were so accustomed to that , that they grew none the blacker for it . The prisoner scratched pictures and verses in white upon the black ground , but I did not read them . I think he found it tedious , and I was a welcome guest . He lured me with bread crumbs , with whistling , and with friendly words : he was glad to see me , and gradually I got to trust him , and we became good friends . He let me run upon his hand , his arm , and into his sleeve ; he let me creep about in his beard , and called me his little friend . I really got to love him , for these things are reciprocal . I forgot my mission in the wide world , forgot my sausage-peg : that I had placed in a crack in the floor -- it 's lying there still . I wished to stay where I was , for if I went away , the poor prisoner would have no one at all , and that 's having _ too _ little , in this world . _ I _ stayed , but _ he _ did not stay . He spoke to me very mournfully the last time , gave me twice as much bread and cheese as usual , and kissed his hand to me ; then he went away , and never came back . I do n't know his history . '' ` Soup on a sausage-peg ! ' said the gaoler , to whom I now went ; but I should not have trusted him . He took me in his hand , certainly , but he popped me into a cage , a treadmill . That 's a horrible engine , in which you go round and round without getting any farther ; and people laugh at you into the bargain . `` The gaoler 's granddaughter was a charming little thing , with a mass of curly hair that shone like gold , and such merry eyes , and such a smiling mouth ! '' ` You poor little mouse , ' she said , as she peeped into my ugly cage ; and she drew out the iron rod , and forth I jumped , to the window board , and from thence to the roof spout . Free ! free ! I thought only of that , and not of the goal of my journey . `` It was dark , and night was coming on . I took up my quarters in an old tower , where dwelt a watchman and an owl . That is a creature like a cat , who has the great failing that she eats mice . But one may be mistaken , and so was I , for this was a very respectable , well-educated old owl : she knew more than the watchman , and as much as I. The young owls were always making a racket ; but ` go and make soup on a sausage peg ' were the hardest words she could prevail on herself to utter , she was so fondly attached to her family . Her conduct inspired me with so much confidence , that from the crack in which I was crouching I called out ` peep ! ' to her . This confidence of mine pleased her hugely , and she assured me I should be under her protection , and that no creature should be allowed to do me wrong ; she would reserve me for herself , for the winter , when there would be short commons . `` She was in every respect a clever woman , and explained to me how the watchman could only ` whoop ' with the horn that hung at his side , adding , ` He is terribly conceited about it , and imagines he 's an owl in the tower . Wants to do great things , but is very small -- soup on a sausage-peg ! ' I begged the owl to give me the recipe for this soup , and then she explained the matter to me . '' ` Soup on a sausage-peg , ' she said , ` was only a human proverb , and was to be understood thus : Each thinks his own way the best , but the whole signifies nothing . ' '' ` Nothing ! ' '' I exclaimed . `` I was quite struck . Truth is not always agreeable , but truth is above everything ; and that 's what the old owl said . I now thought about it , and readily perceived that if I brought what was _ above everything _ I brought something far beyond soup on a sausage-peg . So I hastened away , that I might get home in time , and bring the highest and best , that is above everything -- namely , _ the truth _ . The mice are an enlightened people , and the king is above them all . He is capable of making me queen , for the sake of truth . '' `` Your truth is a falsehood , '' said the Mouse who had not yet spoken . `` I can prepare the soup , and I mean to prepare it . '' _ How it was prepared . _ `` I did not travel , '' the third Mouse said . `` I remained in my country -- that 's the right thing to do . There 's no necessity for traveling ; one can get everything as good here . I stayed at home . I 've not learned what I know from supernatural beings , or gobbled it up , or held converse with owls . I have what I know through my own reflections . Will you make haste and put that kettle upon the fire ? So -- now water must be poured in -- quite full -- up to the brim ! -- So -- now more fuel -- make up the fire , that the water may boil -- it must boil over and over ! -- So -- I now throw the peg in . Will the king now be pleased to dip his tail in the boiling water , and to stir it round with the said tail ? The longer the king stirs it , the more powerful will the soup become . It costs nothing at all -- no further materials are necessary , only stir it round ! '' `` Can not any one else do that ? '' asked the Mouse King . `` No ; '' replied the mouse . `` The power is contained only in the tail of the Mouse King . '' And the water boiled and bubbled , and the Mouse King stood close beside the kettle -- there was almost danger in it -- and he put forth his tail , as the mice do in the dairy , when they skim the cream from a pan of milk , afterwards licking their creamy tails ; but his tail only penetrated into the hot steam , and then he sprang hastily down from the hearth . `` Of course -- certainly you are my queen , '' he said . `` We 'll adjourn the soup question till our golden wedding in fifty years ' time , so that the poor of my subjects , who will then be fed , may have something to which they can look forward with pleasure for a long time . '' -LRB-B- Illustration : THE MOUSE KING UNDERSTANDS HOW THE SOUP IS MADE . aaaaa -RRB-B- aaa And soon the wedding was held . But many of the mice said , as they were returning home , that it could not be really called soup on a sausage-peg , but rather soup on a mouse 's tail . They said that some of the stories had been very cleverly told ; but the whole thing might have been different . '' _ I _ should have told it so -- and so -- and so ! '' Thus said the critics , who are always wise -- after the fact . And this story went out into the wide world , everywhere ; and opinions varied concerning it , but the story remained as it was . And that 's the best in great things and in small , so also with regard to soup on a sausage-peg -- not to expect any thanks for it .