THE KING OF PERSIA AND THE PRINCESS OF THE SEA . Arabian Writer There once was a king of Persia , who at the beginning of his reign had distinguished himself by many glorious and successful conquests , and had afterwards enjoyed such profound peace and tranquillity as rendered him the happiest of monarchs . His only occasion for regret was that he had no heir to succeed him in the kingdom after his death . One day , according to the custom of his royal predecessors during their residence in the capital , he held an assembly of his courtiers , at which all the ambassadors and strangers of renown at his court were present . Among these there appeared a merchant from a far-distant country , who sent a message to the king craving an audience , as he wished to speak to him about a very important matter . The king gave orders for the merchant to be instantly admitted ; and when the assembly was over , and all the rest of the company had retired , the king inquired what was the business which had brought him to the palace . ` Sire , ' replied the merchant , ` I have with me , and beg your majesty to behold , the most beautiful and charming slave it would be possible to find if you searched every corner of the earth ; if you will but see her , you will surely wish to make her your wife . ' The fair slave was , by the king 's commands , immediately brought in , and no sooner had the king beheld a lady whose beauty and grace surpassed anything he had ever imagined , than he fell passionately in love with her , and determined to marry her at once . This was done . So the king caused the fair slave to be lodged in the next finest apartment to his own , and gave particular orders to the matrons and the women-slaves appointed to attend her , that they should dress her in the richest robe they could find , and carry her the finest pearl necklaces , the brightest diamonds , and other the richest precious stones , that she might choose those she liked best . The King of Persia 's capital was situated in an island ; and his palace , which was very magnificent , was built upon the sea-shore ; his window looked towards the sea ; and the fair slave 's , which was pretty near it , had also the same prospect , and it was the more pleasant on account of the sea 's beating almost against the foot of the wall . At the end of three days the fair slave , magnificently dressed , was alone in her chamber , sitting upon a sofa , and leaning against one of the windows that faced the sea , when the king , being informed that he might visit her , came in . The slave hearing somebody walk in the room , immediately turned her head to see who it was . She knew him to be the king ; but without showing the least surprise , or so much as rising from her seat to salute or receive him , she turned back to the window again as if he had been the most insignificant person in the world . The King of Persia was extremely surprised to see a slave of so beauteous a form so very ignorant of the world . He attributed this to the narrowness of her education , and the little care that had been taken to instruct her in the first rules of civility . He went to her at the window , where , notwithstanding the coldness and indifference with which she had just now received him , she suffered herself to be admired , kissed and embraced as much as he pleased , but answered him not a word . ` My dearest life , ' said the king , ` you neither answer , nor by any visible token give me the least reason to believe that you are listening to me . Why will you still keep to this obstinate silence , which chills me ? Do you mourn for your country , your friends , or your relations ? Alas ! is not the King of Persia , who loves and adores you , capable of comforting , and making you amends for the loss of everything in the world ? ' But the fair slave continued her astonishing reserve ; and keeping her eyes still fixed upon the ground , would neither look at him nor utter a word ; but after they had dined together in absolute silence , the king went to the women whom he had assigned to the fair slave as her attendants , and asked them if they had ever heard her speak . One of them presently made answer , ` Sire , we have neither seen her open her lips , nor heard her speak any more than your majesty has just now ; we have rendered her our services ; we have combed and dressed her hair , put on her clothes , and waited upon her in her chamber ; but she has never opened her lips , so much as to say , That is well , or , I like this . We have often asked , Madam , do you want anything ? Is there anything you wish for ? Do but ask and command us : but we have never been able to draw a word from her . We can not tell whether her silence proceeds from pride , sorrow , stupidity , or dumbness ; and this is all we can inform your majesty . ' The King of Persia was more astonished at hearing this than he was before : however , believing the slave might have some reason for sorrow , he endeavored to divert and amuse her , but all in vain . For a whole year she never afforded him the pleasure of a single word . At length , one day there were great rejoicings in the capital , because to the king and his silent slave-queen there was born a son and heir to the kingdom . Once more the king endeavored to get a word from his wife . ` My queen , ' he said , ` I can not divine what your thoughts are ; but , for my own part , nothing would be wanting to complete my happiness and crown my joy but that you should speak to me one single word , for something within me tells me you are not dumb : and I beseech , I conjure you , to break through this long silence , and speak but one word to me ; and after that I care not how soon I die . ' At this discourse the fair slave , who , according to her usual custom , had hearkened to the king with downcast eyes , and had given him cause to believe not only that she was dumb , but that she had never laughed in her life , began to smile a little . The King of Persia perceived it with a surprise that made him break forth into an exclamation of joy ; and no longer doubting but that she was going to speak , he waited for that happy moment with an eagerness and attention that can not easily be expressed . At last the fair slave , breaking her long-kept silence , thus addressed herself to the king : ` Sire , ' said she , ` I have so many things to say to your majesty , that , having once broken silence , I know not where to begin . However , in the first place , I think myself in duty bound to thank you for all the favors and honors you have been pleased to confer upon me , and to implore Heaven to bless and prosper you , to prevent the wicked designs of your enemies , and not to suffer you to die after hearing me speak , but to grant you a long life . Had it never been my fortune to have borne a child , I was resolved -LRB-B- I beg your majesty to pardon the sincerity of my intention -RRB-B- never to have loved you , as well as to have kept an eternal silence ; but now I love you as I ought to do . ' The King of Persia , ravished to hear the fair slave speak , embraced her tenderly . ` Shining light of my eyes , ' said he , ` it is impossible for me to receive a greater joy than what you have now given me . ' The King of Persia , in the transport of his joy , said no more to the fair slave . He left her , but in such a manner as made her perceive that his intention was speedily to return : and being willing that his joy should be made public , he sent in all haste for the grand vizier . As soon as he came , he ordered him to distribute a thousand pieces of gold among the holy men of his religion , who had made vows of poverty ; as also among the hospitals and the poor , by way of returning thanks to Heaven : and his will was obeyed by the direction of that minister . After the King of Persia had given this order , he returned to the fair slave again . ` Madam , ' said he , ` pardon me for leaving you so abruptly , but I hope you will indulge me with some conversation , since I am desirous to know several things of great consequence . Tell me , my dearest soul , what were the powerful reasons that induced you to persist in that obstinate silence for a whole year together , though you saw me , heard me talk to you , and ate and drank with me every day . ' To satisfy the King of Persia 's curiosity , ` Think , ' replied the queen , ` whether or no to be a slave , far from my own country , without any hopes of ever seeing it again , -- to have a heart torn with grief at being separated for ever from my mother , my brother , my friends , and my acquaintance , -- are not these sufficient reasons for my keeping a silence your majesty has thought so strange and unaccountable ? The love of our native country is as natural to us as that of our parents ; and the loss of liberty is insupportable to every one who is not wholly destitute of common sense , and knows how to set a value on it . ' ` Madam , ' replied the king , ` I am convinced of the truth of what you say ; but till this moment I was of opinion that a person beautiful like yourself , whom her evil destiny had condemned to be a slave , ought to think herself very happy in meeting with a king for her master . ' ` Sire , ' replied the fair slave , ` whatever the slave is , there is no king on earth who can tyrannise over her will . But when this very slave is in nothing inferior to the king that bought her , your majesty shall then judge yourself of her misery , and her sorrow , and to what desperate attempts the anguish of despair may drive her . ' The King of Persia , in great astonishment , said ` Madam , can it be possible that you are of royal blood ? Explain the whole secret to me , I beseech you , and no longer increase my impatience . Let me instantly know who are your parents , your brothers , your sisters , and your relations ; but , above all , what your name is . ' ` Sire , ' said the fair slave , ` my name is Gulnare , Rose of the Sea ; and my father , who is now dead , was one of the most potent monarchs of the ocean . When he died , he left his kingdom to a brother of mine , named Saleh , and to the queen , my mother , who is also a princess , the daughter of another powerful monarch of the sea . We enjoyed a profound peace and tranquillity through the whole kingdom , till a neighbouring prince , envious of our happiness , invaded our dominions with a mighty army ; and penetrating as far as our capital , made himself master of it ; and we had but just time enough to save ourselves in an impenetrable and inaccessible place , with a few trusty officers who did not forsake us in our distress . ` In this retreat my brother contrived all manner of ways to drive the unjust invader from our dominions . One day `` Sister , '' said he , `` I may fail in the attempt I intend to make to recover my kingdom ; and I shall be less concerned for my own disgrace than for what may possibly happen to you . To prevent it , and to secure you from all accident , I would fain see you married first : but in the miserable condition of our affairs at present , I see no probability of matching you to any of the princes of the sea ; and therefore I should be very glad if you would think of marrying some of the princes of the earth I am ready to contribute all that lies in my power towards it ; and I am certain there is not one of them , however powerful , but would be proud of sharing his crown with you . '' ` At this discourse of my brother 's , I fell into a violent passion . `` Brother , '' said I , `` you know that I am descended , as well as you , by both father 's and mother 's side , from the kings and queens of the sea , without any mixture of alliance with those of the earth ; therefore I do not intend to marry below myself , any more than they did . The condition to which we are reduced shall never oblige me to alter my resolution ; and if you perish in the execution of your design , I am prepared to fall with you , rather than to follow the advice I so little expected from you . '' ` My brother , who was still earnest for the marriage , however improper for me , endeavored to make me believe that there were kings of the earth who were nowise inferior to those of the sea . This put me into a more violent passion , which occasioned him to say several bitter words that stung me to the quick . He left me as much dissatisfied with myself as he could possibly be with me ; and in this peevish mood I gave a spring from the bottom of the sea up to the island of the moon . ` Notwithstanding the violent displeasure that made me cast myself upon that island , I lived content in retirement . But in spite of all my precautions , a person of distinction , attended by his servants , surprised me sleeping , and carried me to his own house , and wished me to marry him . When he saw that fair means would not prevail upon me , he attempted to make use of force ; but I soon made him repent of his insolence . So at last he resolved to sell me ; which he did to that very merchant who brought me hither and sold me to your majesty . This man was a very prudent , courteous , humane person , and during the whole of the long journey , never gave me the least reason to complain . ` As for your majesty , ' continued Queen Gulnare , ` if you had not shown me all the respect you have hitherto paid , and given me such undeniable marks of your affection that I could no longer doubt of it , I hesitate not to tell you plainly that I should not have remained with you . I would have thrown myself into the sea out of this very window , and I would have gone in search of my mother , my brother , and the rest of my relations ; and , therefore , I hope you will no longer look upon me as a slave , but as a princess worthy of your alliance . ' After this manner Queen Gulnare discovered herself to the King of Persia , and finished her story . ` My charming , my adorable queen , ' cried he , ` what wonders have I heard ! I must ask a thousand questions concerning those strange and unheard-of things which you have related to me . I beseech you to tell me more about the kingdom and people of the sea , who are altogether unknown to me . I have heard much talk , indeed , of the inhabitants of the sea , but I always looked upon it as nothing but a tale or fable ; but , by what you have told me , I am convinced there is nothing more true ; and I have a very good proof of it in your own person , who are one of them , and are pleased to condescend to be my wife ; which is an honor no other inhabitant on the earth can boast of besides myself . There is one thing yet which puzzles me ; therefore I must beg the favor of you to explain it ; that is , I can not comprehend how it is possible for you to live or move in the water without being drowned . There are very few amongst us who have the art of staying under water ; and they would surely perish , if , after a certain time , they did not come up again . ' ` Sire , ' replied Queen Gulnare , ` I shall with pleasure satisfy the King of Persia . We can walk at the bottom of the sea with as much ease as you can upon land ; and we can breathe in the water as you do in the air ; so that instead of suffocating us , as it does you , it absolutely contributes to the preservation of our lives . What is yet more remarkable is , that it never wets our clothes ; so that when we have a mind to visit the earth , we have no occasion to dry them . Our common language is the same as that of the writing engraved upon the seal of the great prophet Solomon , the son of David . ` I must not forget to tell you , further , that the water does not in the least hinder us from seeing in the sea ; for we can open our eyes without any inconvenience ; and as we have quick , piercing sight , we can discern any object as clearly in the deepest part of the sea as upon land . We have also there a succession of day and night ; the moon affords us her light , and even the planets and the stars appear visible to us . I have already spoken of our kingdoms ; but as the sea is much more spacious than the earth , so there are a greater number of them , and of greater extent . They are divided into provinces ; and in each province there are several great cities , well peopled . In short , there are an infinite number of nations , differing in manners and customs , just as upon the earth . ` The palaces of the kings and princes are very sumptuous and magnificent . Some of them are of marble of various colors ; others of rock-crystal , with which the sea abounds , mother of pearl , coral , and of other materials more valuable ; gold , silver , and all sorts of precious stones are more plentiful there than on earth . I say nothing of the pearls , since the largest that ever were seen upon earth would not be valued amongst us ; and none but the very lowest rank of citizens would wear them . ` As we can transport ourselves whither we please in the twinkling of an eye , we have no occasion for any carriages or riding-horses ; not but what the king has his stables , and his stud of sea-horses ; but they are seldom made use of , except upon public feasts or rejoicing days . Some , after they have trained them , take delight in riding them , and show their skill and dexterity in races ; others put them to chariots of mother-of-pearl , adorned with an infinite number of shells of all sorts , of the brightest colors . These chariots are open ; and in the middle there is a throne upon which the king sits , and shows himself to his subjects . The horses are trained up to draw by themselves ; so that there is no occasion for a charioteer to guide them . I pass over a thousand other curious particulars relating to these marine countries , which would be very entertaining to your majesty ; but you must permit me to defer it to a future leisure , to speak of something of much greater consequence . I should like to send for my mother and my cousins , and at the same time to desire the king my brother 's company , to whom I have a great desire to be reconciled . They will be very glad to see me again , after I have related my story to them , and when they understand I am wife to the mighty king of Persia . I beseech your majesty to give me leave to send for them : I am sure they will be happy to pay their respects to you ; and I venture to say you will be extremely pleased to see them . ' ` Madam , ' replied the King of Persia , ` you are mistress ; do whatever you please ; I will endeavor to receive them with all the honors they deserve . But I would fain know how you would acquaint them with what you desire , and when they will arrive , that I may give orders to make preparation for their reception , and go myself in person to meet them . ' ` Sire , ' replied the Queen Gulnare , ` there is no need of these ceremonies ; they will be here in a moment ; and if your Majesty will but look through the lattice , you shall see the manner of their arrival . ' Queen Gulnare then ordered one of her women to bring her a brazier with a little fire . After that she bade her retire , and shut the door . When she was alone , she took a piece of aloes out of a box , and put it into the brazier . As soon as she saw the smoke rise , she repeated some words unknown to the King of Persia , who from a recess observe with great attention all that she did . She had no sooner ended , than the sea began to be disturbed . At length the sea opened at some distance ; and presently there rose out of it a tall , handsome young man , with moustaches of a sea-green color ; a little behind him , a lady , advanced in years , but of a majestic air , attended by five young ladies , nowise inferior in beauty to the Queen Gulnare . Queen Gulnare immediately went to one of the windows , and saw the king her brother , the queen her mother , and the rest of her relations , who at the same time perceived her also . The company came forward , borne , as it were , upon the surface of the waves . When they came to the edge , they nimbly , one after another , sprang up to the window , from whence Queen Gulnare had retired to make room for them . King Saleh , the queen her mother , and the rest of her relations , embraced her tenderly , with tears in their eyes , on their first entrance . After Queen Gulnare had received them with all imaginable honor , and made them sit down upon a sofa , the queen her mother addressed herself to her : ` Daughter , ' said she , ` I am overjoyed to see you again after so long an absence ; and I am confident that your brother and your relations are no less so . Your leaving us without acquainting anybody with it involved us in inexpressible concern ; and it is impossible to tell you how many tears we have shed upon that account . We know of no other reason that could induce you to take such a surprising step , but what your brother told us of the conversation that passed between him and you . The advice he gave you seemed to him at that time very advantageous for settling you handsomely in the world , and very suitable to the then posture of our affairs . If you had not approved of his proposal , you ought not to have been so much alarmed ; and , give me leave to tell you , you took the thing in a quite different light from what you ought to have done . But no more of this ; we and you ought now to bury it for ever in oblivion : give us an account of all that has happened to you since we saw you last , and of your present situation ; but especially let us know if you are satisfied . ' Queen Gulnare immediately threw herself at her mother 's feet ; and after rising and kissing her hand , ` I own , ' said she , ` I have been guilty of a very great fault , and I am indebted to your goodness for the pardon which you are pleased to grant me . ' She then related the whole of what had befallen her since she quitted the sea . As soon as she had acquainted them with her having been sold to the King of Persia , in whose palace she was at present ; ` Sister , ' said the king her brother , ` you now have it in your power to free yourself . Rise , and return with us into my kingdom , that I have reconquered from the proud usurper who had made himself master of it . ' The King of Persia , who heard these words from the recess where he was concealed , was in the utmost alarm . ` Ah ! ' said he to himself , ` I am ruined ; and if my queen , my Gulnare , hearkens to this advice , and leaves me , I shall surely die . ' But Queen Gulnare soon put him out of his fears . ` Brother , ' said she , smiling , ` I can scarce forbear being angry with you for advising me to break the engagement I have made with the most puissant and most renowned monarch in the world . I do not speak here of an engagement between a slave and her master ; it would be easy to return the ten thousand pieces of gold that I cost him ; but I speak now of a contract between a wife and a husband , and a wife who has not the least reason to complain . He is a religious , wise , and temperate king . I am his wife , and he has declared me Queen of Persia , to share with him in his councils . Besides , I have a child , the little Prince Beder . I hope then neither my mother , nor you , nor any of my cousins , will disapprove of the resolution or the alliance I have made , which will be an equal honor to the kings of the sea and the earth . Excuse me for giving you the trouble of coming hither from the bottom of the deep , to communicate it to you , and for the pleasure of seeing you after so long a separation . ' ` Sister , ' replied King Saleh , ` the proposal I made you of going back with us into my kingdom was only to let you see how much we all love you , and how much I in particular honor you , and that nothing in the world is so dear to me as your happiness . ' The queen confirmed what her son had just spoken , and addressing herself to Queen Gulnare , said , ` I am very glad to hear you are pleased ; and I have nothing else to add to what your brother has just said to you . I should have been the first to have condemned you , if you had not expressed all the gratitude you owe to a monarch that loves you so passionately , and has done such great things for you . ' When the King of Persia , who was still in the recess , heard this he began to love her more than ever , and resolved to express his gratitude in every possible way . Presently Queen Gulnare clapped her hands , and in came some of her slaves , whom she had ordered to bring in a meal : as soon as it was served up , she invited the queen her mother , the king her brother , and her cousins , to sit down and take part of it . They began to reflect , that without asking leave , they had got into the palace of a mighty king , who had never seen nor heard of them , and that it would be a great piece of rudeness to eat at his table without him . This reflection raised a blush in their faces ; in their emotion their eyes glowed like fire , and they breathed flames at their mouths and nostrils . This unexpected sight put the King of Persia , who was totally ignorant of the cause of it , into a dreadful consternation . Queen Gulnare suspecting this , and understanding the intention of her relations , rose from her seat , and told them she would be back in a moment . She went directly to the recess , and recovered the King of Persia from his surprise . ` Sir , ' said she , ` give me leave to assure you of the sincere friendship that the queen my mother and the king my brother are pleased to honor you with : they earnestly desire to see you , and tell you so themselves : I intended to have some conversation with them by ordering a banquet for them , before I introduced them to your majesty , but they are very impatient to pay their respects to you : and therefore I desire your majesty would be pleased to walk in , and honor them with your presence . ' ` Madam , ' said the King of Persia , ` I should be very glad to salute persons that have the honor to be so nearly related to you , but I am afraid of the flames that they breathe at their mouths and nostrils . ' ` Sir , ' replied the queen , laughing , ` you need not in the least be afraid of those flames , which are nothing but a sign of their unwillingness to eat in your palace , without your honoring them with your presence , and eating with them . ' The King of Persia , encouraged by these words , rose up , and came out into the room with his Queen Gulnare . She presented him to the queen her mother , to the king her brother , and to her other relations , who instantly threw themselves at his feet , with their faces to the ground . The King of Persia ran to them , and lifting them up , embraced them one after another . After they were all seated , King Saleh began : ` Sir , ' said he to the King of Persia , ` we are at a loss for words to express our joy to think that the queen my sister should have the happiness of falling under the protection of so powerful a monarch . We can assure you she is not unworthy of the high rank you have been pleased to raise her to ; and we have always had so much love and tenderness for her , that we could never think of parting with her to any of the puissant princes of the sea , who often demanded her in marriage before she came of age . Heaven has reserved her for you , Sir , and we have no better way of returning thanks to it for the favor it has done her , than by beseeching it to grant your majesty a long and happy life with her , and to crown you with prosperity and satisfaction . ' ` Certainly , ' replied the King of Persia , ` I can not sufficiently thank either the queen her mother , or you , Prince , or your whole family , for the generosity with which you have consented to receive me into an alliance so glorious to me as yours . ' So saying , he invited them to take part of the luncheon , and he and his queen sat down at the table with them . After it was over , the King of Persia conversed with them till it was very late ; and when they thought it time to retire , he waited upon them himself to the several rooms he had ordered to be prepared for them . Next day , as the King of Persia , Queen Gulnare , the queen her mother , King Saleh her brother , and the princesses their relations , were discoursing together in her majesty 's room , the nurse came in with the young Prince Beder in her arms . King Saleh no sooner saw him , than he ran to embrace him ; and taking him in his arms , fell to kissing and caressing him with the greatest demonstration of tenderness . He took several turns with him about the room , dancing and tossing him about , when all of a sudden , through a transport of joy , the window being open , he sprang out , and plunged with him into the sea . The King of Persia , who expected no such sight , set up a hideous cry , verily believing that he should either see the dear prince his son no more , or else that he should see him drowned ; and he nearly died of grief and affliction . ` Sir , ' said Queen Gulnare -LRB-B- with a quiet and undisturbed countenance , the better to comfort him -RRB-B- , ` let your majesty fear nothing ; the young prince is my son as well as yours , and I do not love him less than you do . You see I am not alarmed ; neither in truth ought I to be so . He runs no risk , and you will soon see the king his uncle appear with him again , and bring him back safe and sound . For he will have the same advantage his uncle and I have , of living equally in the sea and upon the land . ' The queen his mother and the princesses his relations confirmed the same thing ; yet all they said had no effect on the king 's fright , from which he could not recover till he saw Prince Beder appear again before him . The sea at length became troubled , when immediately King Saleh arose with the young prince in his arms , and holding him up in the air , he re-entered at the same window he went out at . The King of Persia being overjoyed to see Prince Beder again , and astonished that he was as calm as before he lost sight of him , King Saleh said , ` Sir , was not your majesty in a great fright , when you first saw me plunge into the sea with the prince my nephew ? ' ` AlasS ! Prince , ' answered the King of Persia , ` I can not express my concern . I thought him lost from that very moment , and you now restore life to me by bringing him again . ' ` I thought as much , ' replied King Saleh , ` though you had not the least reason to apprehend any danger ; for , before I plunged into the sea with him I pronounced over him certain mysterious words , which were engraven on the seal of the great Solomon , the son of David . We do the same to all those children that are born in the regions at the bottom of the sea , by virtue of which they receive the same privileges that we have over those people who inhabit the earth . From what your majesty has observed , you may easily see what advantage your son Prince Beder has acquired by his birth , for as long as he lives , and as often as he pleases , he will be at liberty to plunge into the sea , and traverse the vast empires it contains in its bosom . ' Having so spoken , King Saleh , who had restored Prince Beder to his nurse 's arms , opened a box he had fetched from his palace in the little time he had disappeared . It was filled with three hundred diamonds , as large as pigeons ' eggs , a like number of rubies of extraordinary size , as many emerald wands , each half a foot long , and thirty strings or necklaces of pearl , consisting each of ten feet . ` Sir , ' said he to the King of Persia , presenting him with this box , ` when I was first summoned by the queen my sister , I knew not what part of the earth she was in , or that she had the honor to be married to so great a monarch . This made us come empty handed . As we can not express how much we have been obliged to your majesty , I beg you to accept this small token of gratitude , in acknowledgment of the many particular favors you have been pleased to show her . ' It is impossible to express how greatly the King of Persia was surprised at the sight of so much riches , enclosed in so little compass . ` What ! Prince , ' cried he , ` do you call so inestimable a present a small token of your gratitude ? I declare once more , you have never been in the least obliged to me , neither the queen your mother nor you . Madam , ' continued he , turning to Gulnare , ` the king your brother has put me into the greatest confusion ; and I would beg of him to permit me to refuse his present , were I not afraid of disobliging him ; do you therefore endeavor to obtain his leave that I may be excused accepting it . ' ` Sir , ' replied King Saleh , ` I am not at all surprised that your majesty thinks this present so extraordinary . I know you are not accustomed upon earth to see precious stones of this quality and quantity : but if you knew , as I do , the mines whence these jewels were taken , and that it is in my power to form a treasure greater than those of all the kings of the earth , you would wonder we should have the boldness to make you a present of so small a value . I beseech you , therefore , not to regard it in that light , but on account of the sincere friendship which obliges us to offer it to you not to give us the mortification of refusing it . ' This obliged the King of Persia to accept the present , for which he returned many thanks both to King Saleh and the queen his mother . A few days after , King Saleh gave the King of Persia to understand that the queen his mother , the princesses his relations and himself , could have no greater pleasure than to spend their whole lives at his court ; but that having been so long absent from their own kingdom , where their presence was absolutely necessary , they begged of him not to take it ill if they took leave of him and Queen Gulnare . The King of Persia assured them he was very sorry that it was not in his power to return their visit in their own dominions ; but he added , ` As I am verily persuaded you will not forget Queen Gulnare , but come and see her now and then , I hope I shall have the honor to see you again more than once . ' Many tears were shed on both sides upon their separation . King Saleh departed first ; but the queen his mother , and the princesses his relations , were fain to force themselves in a manner from the embraces of Queen Gulnare , who could not prevail upon herself to let them go . This royal company were no sooner out of sight than the King of Persia said to Queen Gulnare , ` Madam , I should have looked with suspicion upon the person that had pretended to pass those off upon me for true wonders , of which I myself have been an eye-witness from the time I have been honored with your illustrious family at my court . But I can not refuse to believe my own eyes ; and shall remember it as long as I live , and never cease to bless Heaven for sending you to me , instead of to any other prince . '