THE FIFTH VOYAGE OF SINBAD THE SAILOR . Arabian Writer The pleasures I enjoyed again had charm enough to make me forget all the troubles and calamities I had undergone , without curing me of my inclination to make new voyages . Therefore I bought goods , ordered them to be packed up and loaded , and set out with them for the best seaport ; and there , that I might not be obliged to depend upon a captain , but have a ship at my own command , I waited till one was built on purpose at my own expense . When the ship was ready , I went on board with my goods ; but not having enough to load her , I took on board with me several merchants of different nations , with their merchandise . We sailed with the first fair wind , and after a long voyage , the first place we touched at was a desert island , where we found an egg of a roc , equal in size to that I formerly mentioned . There was a young roc in it just ready to be hatched , and the bill of it began to appear . The merchants whom I had taken on board my ship , and who landed with me , broke the egg with hatchets , and made a hole in it , from whence they pulled out the young roc piece by piece , and roasted it . I had earnestly persuaded them not to meddle with the egg , but they would not listen to me . Scarcely had they made an end of their feast , when there appeared in the air , at a considerable distance from us , two great clouds . The captain whom I hired to manage my ship , knowing by experience what it meant , cried that it was the cock and hen roc that belonged to the young one , and pressed us to re-embark with all speed , to prevent the misfortune which he saw would otherwise befall us . We made haste to do so , and set sail with all possible diligence . In the meantime the two rocs approached with a frightful noise , which they redoubled when they saw the egg broken , and their young one gone . But having a mind to avenge themselves , they flew back towards the place from whence they came , and disappeared for some time , while we made all the sail we could to prevent that which unhappily befell us . They returned , and we observed that each of them carried between their talons stones , or rather rocks , of a monstrous size . When they came directly over my ship , they hovered , and one of them let fall a stone ; but by the dexterity of the steersman , who turned the ship with the rudder , it missed us , and falling by the side of the ship into the sea , divided the water so that we could see almost to the bottom . The other roc , to our misfortune , threw the stone so exactly upon the middle of the ship that it split into a thousand pieces . The mariners and passengers were all killed by the stone , or sunk . I myself had the last fate ; but as I came up again I fortunately caught hold of a piece of the wreck , and swimming sometimes with one hand and sometimes with the other , but always holding fast to my board , the wind and the tide favoring me , I came to an island , where the beach was very steep . I overcame that difficulty however , and got ashore . I sat down upon the grass , to recover myself a little from my fatigue , after which I got up , and went into the island to view it . It seemed to be a delicious garden . I found trees everywhere , some of them bearing green and others ripe fruits , and streams of fresh pure water , with pleasant windings and turnings . I ate of the fruits , which I found excellent , and drank of the water , which was very pleasant . Night being come , I lay down upon the grass in a convenient place enough , but I could not sleep for an hour at a time , my mind was so disturbed with the fear of being alone in so desert a place . Thus I spent the best part of the night in fretting , and reproached myself for my imprudence in not staying at home , rather than undertaking this last voyage . These reflections carried me so far , that I began to form a design against my own life , but daylight dispersed these melancholy thoughts , and I got up , and walked among the trees , but not without apprehensions of danger . When I was a little advanced into the island , I saw an old man who appeared very weak and feeble . He sat upon the bank of a stream , and at first I took him to be one who had been shipwrecked like myself . I went towards him and saluted him , but he only bowed his head a little . I asked him what he did there , but instead of answering he made a sign for me to take him upon my back and carry him over the brook , signifying that it was to gather fruit . I believed him really to stand in need of my help , so took him upon my back , and having carried him over , bade him get down , and for that end stooped that he might get off with ease : but instead of that -LRB-B- which I laugh at every time I think of it -RRB-B- , the old man , who to me had appeared very decrepit , clasped his legs nimbly about my neck , and then I perceived his skin to resemble that of a cow . He sat astride upon my shoulders , and held my throat so tight that I thought he would have strangled me , the fright of which made me faint away and fall down . Notwithstanding my fainting , the ill-natured old fellow kept fast about my neck , but opened his legs a little to give me time to recover my breath . When I had done so , he thrust one of his feet against my stomach , and struck me so rudely on the side with the other , that he forced me to rise up against my will . Having got up , he made me walk under the trees , and forced me now and then to stop , to gather and eat fruit such as we found . He never left me all day , and when I lay down to rest by night , he laid himself down with me , always holding fast about my neck . Every morning he pushed me to make me wake , and afterwards obliged me to get up and walk , and pressed me with his feet . You may judge then what trouble I was in , to be loaded with such a burden as I could by no means rid myself of . One day I found in my way several dry calabashes that had fallen from a tree ; I took a large one , and , after cleaning it , pressed into it some juice of grapes , which abounded in the island . Having filled the calabash , I set it in a convenient place ; and coming hither again some days after , I took up my calabash , and setting it to my mouth found the wine to be so good that it presently made me not only forget my sorrow , but grow vigorous , and so light-hearted that I began to sing and dance as I walked along . The old man , perceiving the effect which this drink had upon me , and that I carried him with more ease than I did before , made a sign for me to give him some of it . I gave him the calabash , and the liquor pleasing his palate , he drank it all off . He became drunk immediately , and the fumes getting up into his head he began to sing after his manner , and to dance upon my shoulders . His jolting about made him sick , and he loosened his legs from about me by degrees ; so finding that he did not press me as before , I threw him upon the ground , where he lay without motion , and then I took up a great stone , with which I crushed his head to pieces . I was extremely rejoiced to be freed thus for ever from this cursed old fellow , and walked along the shore of the sea , where I met the crew of a ship that had cast anchor to take in water to refresh themselves . They were extremely surprised to see me , and to hear the particulars of my adventures . ` You fell , ' said they , ` into the hands of the old man of the sea , and are the first that has ever escaped strangling by him . He never left those he had once made himself master of till he destroyed them , and he has made this island famous for the number of men he has slain ; so that the merchants and mariners who landed upon it dared not advance into the island but in numbers together . ' After having informed me of these things they carried me with them to the ship ; the captain received me with great satisfaction when they told him what had befallen me . He put out again to sea , and after some days ' sail we arrived at the harbor of a great city , where the houses were built of good stone . One of the merchants of the ship , who had taken me into his friendship , asked me to go along with him , and took me to a place appointed as a retreat for foreign merchants . He gave me a great bag , and having recommended me to some people of the town , who were used to gather cocoa-nuts , he desired them to take me with them to do the like : ` Go , ' said he , ` follow them , and do as you see them do , and do not separate from them , otherwise you endanger your life . ' Having thus spoken , he gave me provisions for the journey , and I went with them . We came to a great forest of trees , extremely straight and tall , their trunks so smooth that it was not possible for any man to climb up to the branches that bore the fruit . All the trees were cocoa-nut trees , and when we entered the forest we saw a great number of apes of all sizes , that fled as soon as they perceived us , and climbed up to the top of the trees with surprising swiftness . The merchants with whom I was gathered stones , and threw them at the apes on the top of the trees . I did the same , and the apes , out of revenge , threw cocoa-nuts at us as fast and with such gestures as sufficiently testified their anger and resentment : we gathered up the cocoa-nuts , and from time to time threw stones to provoke the apes ; so that by this stratagem we filled our bags with cocoa - nuts , which it had been impossible for us to do otherwise . When we had gathered our number , we returned to the city , where the merchant who sent me to the forest gave me the value of the cocoa - nuts I had brought ; ` Go on , ' said he , ` and do the like every day , until you have money enough to carry you home . ' I thanked him for his good advice , and gathered together as many cocoa-nuts as amounted to a considerable sum . The vessel in which I came sailed with merchants who loaded her with cocoa-nuts . I expected the arrival of another , whose merchants landed speedily for the like loading . I embarked on board the same all the cocoa-nuts that belonged to me , and when she was ready to sail I went and took leave of the merchant who had been so kind to me ; but he could not embark with me because he had not finished his business . We set sail towards the islands where pepper grows in great plenty . From thence we went to the Isle of Comari , where the best sort of wood of aloes grows , and whose inhabitants have made it an inviolable law to drink no wine themselves , nor to suffer any kind of improper conduct . I exchanged my cocoa-nuts in those two islands for pepper and wood of aloes , and went with other merchants pearl - fishing . I hired divers , who fetched me up those that were very large and pure . Then I embarked joyfully in a vessel that happily arrived at Balsora ; from thence I returned to Bagdad , where I made vast sums by my pepper , wood of aloes , and pearls . I gave the tenth of my gains in alms , as I had done upon my return from other voyages , and endeavored to ease myself from my fatigue by diversions of all sorts .