THE PEN AND INKSTAND . H. C. Andersen In the room of a poet , where his inkstand stood upon the table , it was said , `` It is wonderful what can come out of an inkstand . What will the next thing be ? It is wonderful ! '' `` Yes , certainly , '' said the Inkstand . `` It 's extraordinary -- that 's what I always say , '' he exclaimed to the pen and to the other articles on the table that were near enough to hear . `` It is wonderful what a number of things can come out of me . It 's quite incredible . And I really do n't myself know what will be the next thing , when that man begins to dip into me . One drop out of me is enough for half a page of paper ; and what can not be contained in half a page ? From me all the works of the poet go forth -- all these living men , whom people can imagine they have met -- all the deep feeling , the humor , the vivid pictures of nature . I myself do n't understand how it is , for I am not acquainted with nature , but it certainly is in me . From me all these things have gone forth , and from me proceed the troops of charming maidens , and of brave knights on prancing steeds , and all the lame and the blind , and I do n't know what more -- I assure you I do n't think of anything . '' `` There you are right , '' said the Pen ; `` you do n't think at all ; for if you did , you would comprehend that you only furnish the fluid . You give the fluid , that I may exhibit upon the paper what dwells in me , and what I would bring to the day . It is the pen that writes . No man doubts that ; and , indeed , most people have about as much insight into poetry as an old inkstand . '' `` You have but little experience , '' replied the Inkstand . `` You 've hardly been in service a week , and are already half worn out . Do you fancy you are the poet ? You are only a servant ; and before you came I had many of your sort , some of the goose family , and others of English manufacture . I know the quill as well as the steel pen . Many have been in my service , and I shall have many more when _ he _ comes -- the man who goes through the motions for me , and writes down what he derives from me . I should like to know what will be the next thing he 'll take out of me . '' `` Inkpot ! '' exclaimed the Pen . Late in the evening the poet came home . He had been to a concert , where he had heard a famous violinist , with whose admirable performances he was quite enchanted . The player had drawn a wonderful wealth of tone from the instrument : sometimes it had sounded like tinkling water-drops , like rolling pearls , sometimes like birds twittering in chorus , and then again it went swelling on like the wind through the fir trees . The poet thought he heard his own heart weeping , but weeping melodiously , like the sound of woman 's voice . It seemed as though not only the strings sounded , but every part of the instrument . It was a wonderful performance ; and difficult as the piece was , the bow seemed to glide easily to and fro over the strings , and it looked as though every one might do it . The violin seemed to sound of itself , and the bow to move of itself -- those two appeared to do everything ; and the audience forgot the master who guided them and breathed soul and spirit into them . The master was forgotten ; but the poet remembered him , and named him , and wrote down his thoughts concerning the subject : `` How foolish it would be of the violin and the bow to boast of their achievements . And yet we men often commit this folly -- the poet , the artist , the labourer in the domain of science , the general -- we all do it . We are only the instruments which the Almighty uses : to Him alone be the honor ! We have nothing of which we should be proud . '' Yes , that is what the poet wrote down . He wrote it in the form of a parable , which he called `` The Master and the Instruments . '' `` That is what you get , madam , '' said the Pen to the Inkstand , when the two were alone again . `` Did you not hear him read aloud what I have written down ? '' `` Yes , what I gave you to write , '' retorted the Inkstand . `` That was a cut at you , because of your conceit . That you should not even have understood that you were being quizzed ! I gave you a cut from within me -- surely I must know my own satire ! '' `` Ink-pipkin ! '' cried the Pen . `` Writing-stick ! '' cried the Inkstand . And each of them felt a conviction that he had answered well ; and it is a pleasing conviction to feel that one has given a good answer -- a conviction on which one can sleep ; and accordingly they slept upon it . But the poet did not sleep . Thoughts welled up from within him , like the tones from the violin , falling like pearls , rushing like the storm-wind through the forests . He understood his own heart in these thoughts , and caught a ray from the Eternal Master . To _ Him _ be all the honor !