THE GOBLIN AND THE HUCKSTER . H. C. Andersen There was once a regular student : he lived in a garret , and nothing at all belonged to him ; but there was also once a regular huckster : he lived on the ground floor , and the whole house was his ; and the goblin kept with him , for on the huckster 's table on Christmas Eve there was always a dish of plum porridge , with a great piece of butter floating in the middle . The huckster could accomplish that ; and consequently the goblin stuck to the huckster 's shop , and that was very interesting . One evening the student came through the back door to buy candles and cheese for himself . He had no one to send , and that 's why he came himself . He procured what he wanted and paid for it , and the huckster and his wife both nodded a `` good evening '' to him ; and the woman was one who could do more than merely nod -- she had an immense power of tongue ! And the student nodded too , and then suddenly stood still , reading the sheet of paper in which the cheese had been wrapped . It was a leaf torn out of an old book , a book that ought not to have been torn up , a book that was full of poetry . `` Yonder lies some more of the same sort , '' said the huckster : `` I gave an old woman a little coffee for the books ; give me two groschen , and you shall have the remainder . '' `` Yes , '' said the student , `` give me the book instead of the cheese : I can eat my bread and butter without cheese . It would be a sin to tear the book up entirely . You are a capital man , a practical man , but you understand no more about poetry than does that cask yonder . '' Now , that was an insulting speech , especially towards the cask ; but the huckster laughed and the student laughed , for it was only said in fun . But the goblin was angry that any one should dare to say such things to a huckster who lived in his own house and sold the best butter . When it was night , and the shop was closed and all were in bed , the goblin came forth , went into the bedroom , and took away the good lady 's tongue ; for she did not want that while she was asleep ; and whenever he put this tongue upon any object in the room , the said object acquired speech and language , and could express its thoughts and feelings as well as the lady herself could have done ; but only one object could use it at a time , and that was a good thing , otherwise they would have interrupted each other . And the goblin laid the tongue upon the cask in which the old newspapers were lying . `` Is it true , '' he asked , `` that you do n't know what poetry means ? '' `` Of course I know it , '' replied the cask : `` poetry is something that always stands at the foot of a column in the newspapers , and is sometimes cut out . I dare swear I have more of it in me than the student , and I 'm only a poor tub compared to the huckster . '' Then the goblin put the tongue upon the coffee-mill , and , mercy ! how it began to go ! And he put it upon the butter-cask , and on the cash-box : they were all of the waste-paper cask 's opinion , and the opinion of the majority must be respected . `` Now I shall tell it to the student ! '' And with these words the goblin went quite quietly up the back stairs to the garret , where the student lived . The student had still a candle burning , and the goblin peeped through the keyhole , and saw that he was reading in the torn book that he had carried up out of the shop downstairs . But how light it was in his room ! Out of the book shot a clear beam , expanding into a thick stem , and into a mighty tree , which grew upward and spread its branches far over the student . Each leaf was fresh , and every blossom was a beautiful female head , some with dark sparkling eyes , others with wonderfully clear blue orbs ; every fruit was a gleaming star , and there was a glorious sound of song in the student 's room . Never had the little goblin imagined such splendor , far less had he ever seen or heard anything like it . He stood still on tiptoe , and peeped in till the light went out in the student 's garret . Probably the student blew it out , and went to bed ; but the little goblin remained standing there nevertheless , for the music still sounded on , soft and beautiful -- a splendid cradle song for the student who had lain down to rest . `` This is an incomparable place , '' said the goblin : `` I never expected such a thing ! I should like to stay here with the student . '' And then the little man thought it over -- and he was a sensible little man too -- but he sighed , `` The student has no porridge ! '' And then he went down again to the huckster 's shop : and it was a very good thing that he got down there again at last , for the cask had almost worn out the good woman 's tongue , for it had spoken out at one side everything that was contained in it , and was just about turning itself over , to give it out from the other side also , when the goblin came in , and restored the tongue to its owner . But from that time forth the whole shop , from the cash-box down to the firewood , took its tone from the cask , and paid him such respect , and thought so much of him , that when the huckster afterwards read the critical articles on theatricals and art in the newspaper , they were all persuaded the information came from the cask itself . But the goblin could no longer sit quietly and contentedly listening to all the wisdom down there : so soon as the light glimmered from the garret in the evening he felt as if the rays were strong cables drawing him up , and he was obliged to go and peep through the keyhole ; and there a feeling of greatness rolled around him , such as we feel beside the ever-heaving sea when the storm rushes over it , and he burst into tears ! He did not know himself why he was weeping , but a peculiar feeling of pleasure mingled with his tears . How wonderfully glorious it must be to sit with the student under the same tree ! But that might not be , he was obliged to be content with the view through the keyhole , and to be glad of that . There he stood on the cold landing-place , with the autumn wind blowing down from the loft-hole : it was cold , very cold ; but the little mannikin only felt that when the light in the room was extinguished , and the tones in the tree died away . Ha ! then he shivered , and crept down again to his warm corner , where it was homely and comfortable . And when Christmas came , and brought with it the porridge and the great lump of butter , why , then he thought the huckster the better man . But in the middle of the night the goblin was awaked by a terrible tumult and beating against the window shutters . People rapped noisily without , and the watchman blew his horn , for a great fire had broken out -- the whole street was full of smoke and flame . Was it in the house itself , or at a neighbour 's ? Where was it ? Terror seized on all . The huckster 's wife was so bewildered that she took her gold earrings out of her ears and put them in her pocket , that at any rate she might save something ; the huckster ran for his share-papers ; and the maid for her black silk mantilla , for she had found means to purchase one . Each one wanted to save the best thing they had ; the goblin wanted to do the same thing , and in a few leaps he was up the stairs , and into the room of the student , who stood quite quietly at the open window , looking at the conflagration that was raging in the house of the neighbor opposite . The goblin seized upon the wonderful book which lay upon the table , popped it into his red cap , and held the cap tight with both hands . The great treasure of the house was saved ; and now he ran up and away , quite on to the roof of the house , on to the chimney . There he sat , illuminated by the flames of the burning house opposite , both hands pressed tightly over his cap , in which the treasure lay ; and now he knew the real feelings of his heart , and knew to whom it really belonged . But when the fire was extinguished , and the goblin could think calmly again , why , then ... `` I must divide myself between the two , '' he said ; `` I ca n't quite give up the huckster , because of the porridge ! '' Now , that was spoken quite like a human creature . We all of us visit the huckster for the sake of the porridge .