THE BUTTERFLY . H. C. Andersen The Butterfly wished for a bride ; and , as may be imagined , he wanted to select a very pretty one from among the flowers ; therefore he threw a critical glance at all the flower-beds , and found that every flower sat quietly and demurely on her stalk , just as a maiden ought to sit , before she is engaged ; but there were a great many of them , and the choice threatened to become wearisome . The Butterfly did not care to take much trouble , and consequently he flew off on a visit to the daisies . The French call this floweret `` Marguerite , '' and they know that Marguerite can prophecy , when lovers pluck off its leaves , and ask of every leaf they pluck some question concerning their lovers . `` Heartily ? Painfully ? Loves me much ? A little ? Not at all ? '' and so on . Every one asks in his own language . The Butterfly came to Marguerite too , to inquire ; but he did not pluck off her leaves : he kissed each of them , for he considered that most is to be done with kindness . `` Darling Marguerite daisy ! '' he said to her , `` you are the wisest woman among the flowers . Pray , pray tell me , shall I get this one or that ? Which will be my bride ? When I know that , I will directly fly to her , and propose for her . '' But Marguerite did not answer him . She was angry that he had called her a `` woman , '' when she was yet a girl ; and there is a great difference . He asked for the second and for the third time , and when she remained dumb , and answered him not a word , he would wait no longer , but flew away to begin his wooing at once . It was in the beginning of spring ; the crocus and the snowdrop were blooming around . `` They are very pretty , '' thought the Butterfly . `` Charming little lasses , but a little too much of the schoolgirl about them . '' Like all young lads , he looked out for the elder girls . Then he flew of to the anemones . These were a little too bitter for his taste ; the violet somewhat too sentimental ; the lime blossoms were too small , and , moreover , they had too many relations ; the apple blossoms -- they looked like roses , but they bloomed to-day , to fall off to-morrow , to fall beneath the first wind that blew ; and he thought that a marriage with them would last too short a time . The pease blossom pleased him best of all : she was white and red , and graceful and delicate , and belonged to the domestic maidens who look well , and at the same time are useful in the kitchen . He was just about to make his offer , when close by the maiden he saw a pod at whose end hung a withered flower . `` Who is that ? '' he asked . `` That is my sister , '' replied the Pease Blossom . `` Oh , indeed ; and you will get to look like her ! '' he said . And away he flew , for he felt quite shocked . The honeysuckle hung forth blooming from the hedge , but there was a number of girls like that , with long faces and sallow complexions . No , he did not like her . But which one did he like ? The spring went by , and the summer drew towards its close ; it was autumn , but he was still undecided . And now the flowers appeared in their most gorgeous robes , but in vain ; they had not the fresh fragrant air of youth . But the heart demands fragrance , even when it is no longer young , and there is very little of that to be found among the dahlias and dry chrysanthemums , therefore the Butterfly turned to the mint on the ground . You see this plant has no blossom ; but indeed it is blossom all over , full of fragrance from head to foot , with flower scent in every leaf . `` I shall take her , '' said the Butterfly . And he made an offer for her . But the mint stood silent and stiff , listening to him . At last she said , `` Friendship , if you please ; but nothing more . I am old , and you are old , but we may very well live for one another ; but as to marrying -- no -- do n't let us appear ridiculous at our age . '' And thus it happened that the Butterfly had no wife at all . He had been too long choosing , and that is a bad plan . So the Butterfly became what we call an old bachelor . It was late in autumn , with rain and cloudy weather . The wind blew cold over the backs of the old willow trees , so that they creaked again . It was no weather to be flying about in summer clothes , nor , indeed , was the Butterfly in the open air . He had got under shelter by chance , where there was fire in the stove and the heat of summer . He could live well enough , but he said , `` It 's not enough merely to live . One must have freedom , sunshine , and a little flower . '' And he flew against the window-frame , and was seen and admired , and then stuck upon a pin and placed in the box of curiosities ; they could not do more for him . `` Now I am perched on a stalk , like the flowers , '' said the Butterfly . `` It certainly is not very pleasant . It must be something like being married , for one is stuck fast . '' And he consoled himself in some measure with the thought . `` That 's very poor comfort , '' said the potted Plants in the room . `` But , '' thought the Butterfly , `` one can not well trust these potted Plants . They 've had too much to do with mankind . ''