THE FIRST VOYAGE OF SINBAD THE SAILOR . Arabian Writer My father left me a considerable estate , the best part of which I spent in riotous living during my youth ; but I perceived my error , and reflected that riches were perishable , and quickly consumed by such ill managers as myself . I further considered that by my irregular way of living I had wretchedly misspent my time which is the most valuable thing in the world . Struck with those reflections , I collected the remains of my furniture , and sold all my patrimony by public auction to the highest bidder . Then I entered into a contract with some merchants , who traded by sea : I took the advice of such as I thought most capable to give it me ; and resolving to improve what money I had , I went to Balsora and embarked with several merchants on board a ship which we jointly fitted out . We set sail , and steered our course towards the East Indies , through the Persian Gulf , which is formed by the coasts of Arabia Felix on the right , and by those of Persia on the left , and , according to common opinion , is seventy leagues across at the broadest part . The eastern sea , as well as that of the Indies , is very spacious : it is bounded on one side by the coasts of Abyssinia , and is 4,500 leagues in length to the isles of Vakvak . At first I was troubled with sea-sickness , but speedily recovered my health , and was not afterwards troubled with that disease . In our voyage we touched at several islands , where we sold or exchanged our goods . One day , whilst under sail , we were becalmed near a little island , almost even with the surface of the water , which resembled a green meadow . The captain ordered his sails to be furled , and permitted such persons as had a mind to do so to land upon the island , amongst whom I was one . But while we were diverting ourselves with eating and drinking , and recovering ourselves from the fatigue of the sea , the island on a sudden trembled , and shook us terribly . They perceived the trembling of the island on board the ship , and called us to re-embark speedily , or we should all be lost , for what we took for an island was only the back of a whale . The nimblest got into the sloop , others betook themselves to swimming ; but for my part I was still upon the back of the whale when he dived into the sea , and had time only to catch hold of a piece of wood that we had brought out of the ship to make a fire . Meanwhile , the captain , having received those on board who were in the sloop , and taken up some of those that swam , resolved to use the favourable gale that had just risen , and hoisting his sails , pursued his voyage , so that it was impossible for me to regain the ship . Thus was I exposed to the mercy of the waves , and struggled for my life all the rest of the day and the following night . Next morning I found my strength gone , and despaired of saving my life , when happily a wave threw me against an island . The bank was high and rugged , so that I could scarcely have got up had it not been for some roots of trees , which fortune seemed to have preserved in this place for my safety . Being got up , I lay down upon the ground half dead until the sun appeared ; then , though I was very feeble , both by reason of my hard labor and want of food , I crept along to look for some herbs fit to eat , and had the good luck not only to find some , but likewise a spring of excellent water , which contributed much to restore me . After this I advanced farther into the island , and came at last into a fine plain , where I perceived a horse feeding at a great distance . I went towards him , between hope and fear , not knowing whether I was going to lose my life or save it . Presently I heard the voice of a man from under ground , who immediately appeared to me , and asked who I was . I gave him an account of my adventure ; after which , taking me by the hand , he led me into a cave , where there were several other people , no less amazed to see me than I was to see them . I ate some victuals which they offered me , and then asked them what they did in such a desert place . They answered that they were grooms belonging to King Mihrage , sovereign of the island , and that every year they brought thither the king 's horses . They added that they were to get home to-morrow , and had I been one day later I must have perished , because the inhabited part of the island was at a great distance , and it would have been impossible for me to have got thither without a guide . Next morning they returned with their horses to the capital of the island , took me with them , and presented me to King Mihrage . He asked me who I was , and by what adventure I came into his dominions ? And , after I had satisfied him he told me he was much concerned for my misfortune , and at the same time ordered that I should want for nothing , which his officers were so generous and careful as to see exactly fulfilled . Being a merchant , I frequented the society of men of my own profession , and particularly inquired for those who were strangers , if perhaps I might hear any news from Bagdad , or find an opportunity to return thither , for King Mihrage 's capital was situated on the edge of the sea , and had a fine harbor , where ships arrived daily from the different quarters of the world . I frequented also the society of the learned IndiansS , and took delight in hearing them discourse ; but withal I took care to make my court regularly to the king , and conversed with the governors and petty kings , his tributaries , that were about him . They asked me a thousand questions about my country , and I , being willing to inform myself as to their laws and customs , asked them everything which I thought worth knowing . There belonged to this king an island named Cassel . They assured me that every night a noise of drums was heard there , whence the mariners fancied that it was the residence of Degial . I had a great mind to see this wonderful place , and on my way thither saw fishes of one hundred and two hundred cubits long , that occasion more fear than hurt , for they are so timid that they will fly at the rattling of two sticks or boards . I saw likewise other fishes , about a cubit in length , that had heads like owls . As I was one day at the port after my return , a ship arrived , and as soon as she cast anchor , they began to unload her , and the merchants on board ordered their goods to be carried into the warehouse . As I cast my eye upon some bales , and looked at the name , I found my own , and perceived the bales to be the same that I had embarked at Balsora . I also knew the captain ; but being persuaded that he believed me to be drowned , I went and asked him whose bales they were . He replied : ` They belonged to a merchant of Bagdad , called Sinbad , who came to sea with us ; but one day , being near an island , as we thought , he went ashore with several other passengers upon this supposed island , which was only a monstrous whale that lay asleep upon the surface of the water ; but as soon as he felt the heat of the fire they had kindled on his back to dress some victuals he began to move , and dived under water : most of the persons who were upon him perished , and among them unfortunate Sinbad . Those bales belonged to him , and I am resolved to trade with them until I meet with some of his family , to whom I may return the profit . ' ` Captain , ' said I , ` I am that Sinbad whom you thought to be dead , and those bales are mine . ' When the captain heard me speak thus , ` O heaven , ' said he , ` whom can we ever trust now-a-days ? There is no faith left among men . I saw Sinbad perish with my own eyes , and the passengers on board saw it as well as I , and yet you tell me you are that Sinbad . What impudence is this ! To look at you , one would take you to be a man of honesty , and yet you tell a horrible falsehood , in order to possess yourself of what does not belong to you . ' ` Have patience , captain , ' replied I ; ` do me the favor to hear what I have to say . ' ` Very well , ' said he , ` speak ; I am ready to hear you . ' Then I told him how I escaped , and by what adventure I met with the grooms of King Mihrage , who brought me to his court . He was soon persuaded that I was no cheat , for there came people from his ship who knew me , paid me great compliments , and expressed much joy to see me alive . At last he knew me himself , and embracing me , ` Heaven be praised , ' said he , ` for your happy escape ; I can not enough express my joy for it : there are your goods ; take and do with them what you will . ' I thanked him , acknowledged his honesty , and in return offered him part of my goods as a present , which he generously refused . I took out what was most valuable in my bales , and presented it to King Mihrage , who , knowing my misfortune , asked me how I came by such rarities . I acquainted him with the whole story . He was mightily pleased at my good luck , accepted my present , and gave me one much more considerable in return . Upon this I took leave of him , and went aboard the same ship , after I had exchanged my goods for the commodities of that country . I carried with me wood of aloes , sandal , camphor , nutmegs , cloves , pepper , and ginger . We passed by several islands , and at last arrived at Balsora , from whence I came to this city , with the value of one hundred thousand sequins . My family and I received one another with transports of sincere friendship . I bought slaves and fine lands , and built me a great house . And thus I settled myself , resolving to forget the miseries I had suffered , and to enjoy the pleasures of life .