THE FARMYARD COCK AND THE WEATHERCOCK . H. C. Andersen There were two Cocks -- one on the dunghill , the other on the roof . Both were conceited ; but which of the two effected most ? Tell us your opinion ; but we shall keep our own nevertheless . The poultry-yard was divided by a partition of boards from another yard , in which lay a manure-heap , whereon lay and grew a great Cucumber , which was fully conscious of being a forcing-bed plant . `` That 's a privilege of birth , '' the Cucumber said to herself . `` Not all can be born cucumbers ; there must be other kinds too . The fowls , the ducks , and all the cattle in the neighbouring yard are creatures too . I now look up to the Yard Cock on the partition . He certainly is of much greater consequence than the Weathercock , who is so highly placed , and who ca n't even creak , much less crow ; and he has neither hens nor chickens , and thinks only of himself , and perspires verdigris . But the Yard Cock -- he 's something like a cock ! His gait is like a dance , his crowing is music ; and wherever he comes , it is known directly . What a trumpeter he is ! If he would only come in here ! Even if he were to eat me up , stalk and all , it would be a blissful death , '' said the Cucumber . In the night the weather became very bad . Hens , chickens , and even the Cock himself sought shelter . The wind blew down the partition between the two yards with a crash ; the tiles came tumbling down , but the Weathercock sat firm . He did not even turn round ; he could not turn round , and yet he was young and newly cast , but steady and sedate . He had been `` born old , '' and did not at all resemble the birds that fly beneath the vault of heaven , such as the sparrows and the swallows . He despised those , considering them piping birds of trifling stature -- ordinary song birds . The pigeons , he allowed , were big and shining , and gleamed like mother-o ' - pearl , and looked like a kind of weathercocks ; but then they were fat and stupid , and their whole endeavor was to fill themselves with food . `` Moreover , they are tedious things to converse with , '' said the Weathercock . The birds of passage had also paid a visit to the Weathercock , and told him tales of foreign lands , of airy caravans , and exciting robber stories ; of encounters with birds of prey ; and that was interesting for the first time , but the Weathercock knew that afterwards they always repeated themselves , and that was tedious . `` They are tedious , and all is tedious , '' he said . `` No one is fit to associate with , and one and all of them are wearisome and stupid . '' `` The world is worth nothing , '' he cried . `` The whole thing is a stupidity . '' The Weathercock was what is called `` used up ; '' and that quality would certainly have made him interesting in the eyes of the Cucumber if she had known it ; but she had only eyes for the Yard Cock , who had now actually come into her own yard . The wind had blown down the plank , but the storm had passed over . -LRB-B- Illustration : THE WEATHERCOCK . aaaaa -RRB-B- aaa `` What do you think of _ that _ crowing ? '' the Yard Cock inquired of his hens and chickens . `` It was a little rough -- the elegance was wanting . '' And hens and chickens stepped upon the muck-heap , and the Cock strutted to and fro on it like a knight . `` Garden plant ! '' he cried out to the Cucumber ; and in this one word she understood his deep feeling , and forgot that he was pecking at her and eating her up -- a happy death ! And the hens came , and the chickens came , and when one of them runs the rest run also ; and they clucked and chirped , and looked at the Cock , and were proud that he was of their kind . `` Cock-a-doodle-doo ! '' he crowed . `` The chickens will grow up large fowls if I make a noise in the poultry-yard of the world . '' And hens and chickens clucked and chirped , and the Cock told them a great piece of news : `` A cock can lay an egg ; and do you know what there is in that egg ? In that egg lies a basilisk . No one can stand the sight of a basilisk . Men know that , and now you know it too -- you know what is in me , and what a cock of the world I am . '' And with this the Yard Cock flapped his wings , and made his comb swell up , and crowed again ; and all of them shuddered -- all the hens and the chickens ; but they were proud that one of their people should be such a cock of the world . They clucked and chirped , so that the Weathercock heard it ; and he heard it , but he never stirred . `` It 's all stupid stuff ! '' said a voice within the Weathercock . `` The Yard Cock does not lay eggs , and I am too lazy to lay any . If I liked , I could lay a wind-egg ; but the world is not worth a wind-egg . And now I do n't like even to sit here any longer . '' And with this the Weathercock broke off ; but he did not kill the Yard Cock , though he intended to do so , as the hens declared . And what does the moral say ? -- `` Better to crow than to be ` used up ' and break off . ''