THE SIXTH VOYAGE OF SINBAD THE SAILOR . Arabian Writer After being shipwrecked five times , and escaping so many dangers , could I resolve again to try my fortune , and expose myself to new hardships ? I am astonished at it myself when I think of it , and must certainly have been induced to it by my stars . But be that as it will , after a year 's rest I prepared for a sixth voyage , notwithstanding the entreaties of my kindred and friends , who did all that was possible to prevent me . Instead of taking my way by the Persian Gulf , I traveled once more through several provinces of Persia and the Indies , and arrived at a sea-port , where I embarked on board a ship , the captain of which was resolved on a long voyage . It was very long indeed , but at the same time so unfortunate that the captain and pilot lost their course , and knew not where they were . They found it at last , but we had no reason to rejoice at it . We were all seized with extraordinary fear when we saw the captain quit his post , and cry out . He threw off his turban , pulled his beard , and beat his head like a madman . We asked him the reason , and he answered that he was in the most dangerous place in all the sea . ` A rapid current carries the ship along with it , ' he said , ` and we shall all of us perish in less than a quarter of an hour . Pray to God to deliver us from this danger ; we can not escape it if He does not take pity on us . ' At these words he ordered the sails to be changed ; but all the ropes broke and the ship , without its being possible to help it , was carried by the current to the foot of an inaccessible mountain , where she ran ashore , and was broken to pieces , yet so that we saved our lives , our provisions , and the best of our goods . This being over , the captain said to us , ` God has done what pleased Him ; we may every man dig our grave here , and bid the world adieu , for we are all in so fatal a place that none shipwrecked here have ever returned to their homes again . ' His discourse afflicted us sorely , and we embraced each other with tears in our eyes , bewailing our deplorable lot . The mountain at the foot of which we were cast was the coast of a very long and large island . This coast was covered all over with wrecks , and from the vast number of men 's bones we saw everywhere , and which filled us with horror , we concluded that abundance of people had died there . It is also impossible to tell what a quantity of goods and riches we found cast ashore there . All these objects served only to augment our grief . Whereas in all other places rivers run from their channels into the sea , here a great river of fresh water runs out of the sea into a dark cave , whose entrance is very high and large . What is most remarkable in this place is that the stones of the mountain are of crystal , rubies , or other precious stones . Here is also a sort of fountain of pitch or bitumen , that runs into the sea , which the fishes swallow , and then vomit up again , turned into ambergris ; and this the waves throw up on the beach in great quantities . Here also grow trees , most of which are wood of aloes , equal in goodness to those of Comari . To finish the description of this place , which may well be called a gulf , since nothing ever returns from it -- it is not possible for ships to get away again when once they come near it . If they are driven thither by a wind from the sea , the wind and the current ruin them ; and if they come into it when a land-wind blows , which might seem to favor their getting out again , the height of the mountain stops the wind , and occasions a calm , so that the force of the current runs them ashore , where they are broken to pieces , as ours was ; and that which completes the misfortune is that there is no possibility to get to the top of the mountain , or to get out any manner of way . We continued upon the shore , like men out of their senses , and expected death every day . At first we divided our provisions as equally as we could , and thus everyone lived a longer or shorter time , according to their temperance , and the use they made of their provisions . Those who died first were interred by the rest ; and , for my part , I paid the last duty to all my companions . Nor are you to wonder at this ; for besides that I husbanded the provision that fell to my share better than they , I had provision of my own , which I did not share with my comrades ; yet when I buried the last , I had so little remaining that I thought I could not hold out long : so I dug a grave , resolving to lie down in it , because there was none left to inter me . I must confess to you at the same time that while I was thus employed I could not but reflect upon myself as the cause of my own ruin , and repented that I had ever undertaken this last voyage ; nor did I stop at reflections only , but had well nigh hastened my own death , and began to tear my hands with my teeth . But it pleased God once more to take compassion on me , and put it in my mind to go to the bank of the river which ran into the great cave ; where , considering the river with great attention , I said to myself , ` This river , which runs thus under ground , must come out somewhere or other . If I make a raft , and leave myself to the current , it will bring me to some inhabited country , or drown me . If I be drowned I lose nothing , but only change one kind of death for another ; and if I get out of this fatal place , I shall not only avoid the sad fate of my comrades , but perhaps find some new occasion of enriching myself . Who knows but fortune waits , upon my getting off this dangerous shelf , to compensate my shipwreck with interest ? ' I immediately went to work on a raft . I made it of large pieces of timber and cables , for I had choice of them , and tied them together so strongly that I had made a very solid little raft . When I had finished it I loaded it with some bales of rubies , emeralds , ambergris , rock-crystal , and rich stuffs . Having balanced all my cargo exactly and fastened it well to the raft , I went on board it with two little oars that I had made , and , leaving it to the course of the river , I resigned myself to the will of God . As soon as I came into the cave I lost all light , and the stream carried me I knew not whither . Thus I floated for some days in perfect darkness , and once found the arch so low that it well nigh broke my head , which made me very cautious afterwards to avoid the like danger . All this while I ate nothing but what was just necessary to support nature ; yet , notwithstanding this frugality , all my provisions were spent . Then a pleasing sleep fell upon me . I can not tell how long it continued ; but when I awoke , I was surprised to find myself in the middle of a vast country , at the bank of a river , where my raft was tied , amidst a great number of negroes . I got up as soon as I saw them and saluted them . They spoke to me , but I did not understand their language . I was so transported with joy that I knew not whether I was asleep or awake ; but being persuaded that I was not asleep , I recited the following words in Arabic aloud : ` Call upon the Almighty , he will help thee ; thou needest not perplex thyself about anything else ; shut thy eyes , and while thou art asleep , God will change thy bad fortune into good . ' One of the blacks , who understood Arabic , hearing me speak thus , came towards me and said , ` Brother , be not surprised to see us ; we are inhabitants of this country , and came hither to-day to water our fields , by digging little canals from this river , which comes out of the neighbouring mountain . We saw something floating upon the water , went speedily to find out what it was , and perceiving your raft , one of us swam into the river , and brought it hither , where we fastened it , as you see , until you should awake . Pray tell us your history , for it must be extraordinary ; how did you venture into this river , and whence did you come ? ' I begged of them first to give me something to eat , and then I would satisfy their curiosity . They gave me several sorts of food ; and when I had satisfied my hunger , I gave them a true account of all that had befallen me , which they listened to with wonder . As soon as I had finished my discourse , they told me , by the person who spoke Arabic and interpreted to them what I said , that it was one of the most surprising stories they ever heard , and that I must go along with them , and tell it to their king myself ; the story was too extraordinary to be told by any other than the person to whom it happened . I told them I was ready to do whatever they pleased . They immediately sent for a horse , which was brought in a little time ; and having made me get upon him , some of them walked before me to show me the way , and the rest took my raft and cargo , and followed me . We marched thus altogether , till we came to the city of Serendib , for it was in that island I landed . The blacks presented me to their king ; I approached his throne , and saluted him as I used to do the kings of the Indies ; that is to say , I prostrated myself at his feet , and kissed the earth . The prince ordered me to rise up , received me with an obliging air , and made me come up , and sit down near him . He first asked me my name , and I answered , ` They call me Sinbad the sailor , because of the many voyages I have undertaken , and I am a citizen of Baghdad . ' ` But , ' replied he , ` how came you into my dominions , and from whence came you last ? ' I concealed nothing from the king ; I told him all that I have now told you , and his majesty was so surprised and charmed with it , that he commanded my adventure to be written in letters of gold , and laid up in the archives of his kingdom . At last my raft was brought in , and the bales opened in his presence : he admired the quantity of wood of aloes and ambergris ; but , above all , the rubies and emeralds , for he had none in his treasury that came near them . Observing that he looked on my jewels with pleasure , and viewed the most remarkable among them one after another , I fell prostrate at his feet , and took the liberty to say to him , ` Sir , not only my person is at your majesty 's service , but the cargo of the raft , and I would beg of you to dispose of it as your own . ' He answered me with a smile , ` Sinbad , I will take care not to covet anything of yours , nor to take anything from you that God has given you ; far from lessening your wealth , I design to augment it , and will not let you go out of my dominions without marks of my liberality . ' All the answer I returned was prayers for the prosperity of this prince , and commendations of his generosity and bounty . He charged one of his officers to take care of me , and ordered people to serve me at his own charge . The officer was very faithful in the execution of his orders , and caused all the goods to be carried to the lodgings provided for me . I went every day at a set hour to pay court to the king , and spent the rest of my time in seeing the city , and what was most worthy of notice . The Isle of Serendib is situated just under the equinoctial line , so that the days and nights there are always of twelve hours each , and the island is eighty parasangs in length , and as many in breadth . The capital city stands at the end of a fine valley formed by a mountain in the middle of the island , which is the highest in the world . I made , by way of devotion , a pilgrimage to the place where Adam was confined after his banishment from Paradise , and had the curiosity to go to the top of it . When I came back to the city , I prayed the king to allow me to return to my country , which he granted me in the most obliging and honorable manner . He would needs force a rich present upon me , and when I went to take my leave of him , he gave me one much more valuable , and at the same time charged me with a letter for the Commander of the Faithful , our sovereign , saying to me , ` I pray you give this present from me and this letter to Caliph Haroun Alraschid , and assure him of my friendship . ' I took the present and letter in a very respectful manner , and promised his majesty punctually to execute the commission with which he was pleased to honor me . Before I embarked , this prince sent for the captain and the merchants who were to go with me , and ordered them to treat me with all possible respect . The letter from the King of Serendib was written on the skin of a certain animal of great value , because of its being so scarce , and of a yellowish color . The writing was azure , and the contents as follows : -- ` The king of the Indies , before whom march a hundred elephants , who lives in a palace that shines with a hundred thousand rubies , and who has in his treasury twenty thousand crowns enriched with diamonds , to Caliph Haroun Alraschid : ` Though the present we send you be inconsiderable , receive it as a brother and a friend , in consideration of the hearty friendship which we bear to you , and of which we are willing to give you proof . We desire the same part in your friendship , considering that we believe it to be our merit , being of the same dignity with yourself . We conjure you this in the rank of a brother . Farewell . ' The present consisted first , of one single ruby made into a cup , about half a foot high , an inch thick , and filled with round pearls . Secondly , the skin of a serpent , whose scales were as large as an ordinary piece of gold , and had the virtue to preserve from sickness those who lay upon it . Thirdly , fifty thousand drachms of the best wood of aloes , with thirty grains of camphor as big as pistachios . And fourthly , a she-slave of ravishing beauty , whose apparel was covered all over with jewels . The ship set sail , and after a very long and successful voyage , we landed at Balsora ; from thence I went to Bagdad , where the first thing I did was to acquit myself of my commission . I took the King of Serendib 's letter , and went to present myself at the gate of the Commander of the Faithful , followed by the beautiful slave and such of my own family as carried the presents . I gave an account of the reason of my coming , and was immediately conducted to the throne of the caliph . I made my reverence , and after a short speech gave him the letter and present . When he had read what the King of Serendib wrote to him , he asked me if that prince were really so rich and potent as he had said in this letter . I prostrated myself a second time , and rising again , ` Commander of the Faithful , ' said I , ` I can assure your majesty he doth not exceed the truth on that head : I am witness of it . There is nothing more capable of raising a man 's admiration than the magnificence of his palace . When the prince appears in public , he has a throne fixed on the back of an elephant , and marches betwixt two ranks of his ministers , favorites , and other people of his court ; before him , upon the same elephant , an officer carries a golden lance in his hand , and behind the throne there is another , who stands upright with a column of gold , on the top of which there is an emerald half a foot long and an inch thick ; before him march a guard of a thousand men , clad in cloth of gold and silk , and mounted on elephants richly caparisoned . ` While the king is on his march , the officer who is before him on the same elephant cries from time to time , with a loud voice , `` Behold the great monarch , the potent and redoubtable Sultan of the Indies , whose palace is covered with a hundred thousand rubies , and who possesses twenty thousand crowns of diamonds . '' After he has pronounced these words , the officer behind the throne cries in his turn , `` This monarch so great and so powerful , must die , must die , must die . '' And the officer in front replies , `` Praise be to Him who lives for ever . '' ` Further , the King of Serendib is so just that there are no judges in his dominions . His people have no need of them . They understand and observe justice of themselves . ' The caliph was much pleased with my discourse . ` The wisdom of this king , ' said he , ` appears in his letter , and after what you tell me I must confess that his wisdom is worthy of his people , and his people deserve so wise a prince . ' Having spoken thus he dismissed me , and sent me home with a rich present .