THE STORY OF ZOBEIDE TOLD BY HERSELF Arabian Writer The following story is one of the strangest that ever was heard . Two black dogs long dwelt with me in my house , and were very affectionately disposed towards me . These two black dogs and myself were sisters , and I shall acquaint you by what strange accident they came to be metamorphosed . After our father 's death , the estate that he left was equally divided among us . My two sisters and myself stayed with our mother , who was still alive , and when she died she left each of us a thousand sequins . As soon as we received our portions , the two elder -LRB-B- for I am the youngest -RRB-B- , being married , followed their husbands and left me alone . Some time after , my eldest sister 's husband sold all that he had , and with that money and my sister 's portion they both went into Africa , where her husband , by riotous living , spent all ; and finding himself reduced to poverty , he found a pretext for divorcing my sister , and sent her away . She returned to this city , and , having suffered incredible hardships by the way , came to me in so lamentable a condition that it would have moved the hardest heart to compassion . I received her with all the tenderness she could expect , and on my inquiring into the cause of her sad condition , she told me with tears how inhumanly her husband had dealt with her . I was so much concerned at her misfortune that it drew tears from my eyes : I clothed her with my own apparel , and spoke to her thus : ` Sister , you are the elder , and I esteem you as my mother : during your absence , God has blessed the portion that fell to my share , and the employment I follow of feeding and bringing up silk-worms . Assure yourself that there is nothing I have but is at your service , and as much at your disposal as my own . ' We lived very comfortably together for some months ; and one day as we were discoursing together about our third sister , and wondering we heard no news of her , she came home in as bad a condition as the elder ; her husband had treated her after the same manner : and I received her likewise with the same affection as I had done the other . Some time after , my two sisters , on the ground that they would not be an expense to me , told me they intended to marry again . I answered them , that if their putting me to expense was all the reason they might lay those thoughts aside , and be very welcome to stay with me ; for what I had would be sufficient to maintain us all three in a manner suitable to our condition . ` But , ' said I , ' I rather believe you have a mind to marry again . If you do , I am sure it will very much surprise me : after the experience you have had of the small satisfaction there is in marriage , is it possible you dare venture a second time ? You know how rare it is to meet with a husband that is a really honest man . Believe what I say , and let us live together as comfortably as we can . ' All my persuasion was in vain ; they were resolved to marry , and so they did . But after some months were past they came back again , and begged my pardon a thousand times for not following my advice . ` You are our youngest sister , ' said they , ` and much wiser than we ; but if you will vouchsafe to receive us once more into your house and account us your slaves , we shall never commit such a fault again . ' My answer was , ` Dear sisters , I have not altered my mind with respect to you since we last parted from one another ; come again and take part of what I have . ' Upon this I embraced them again , and we lived together as we did formerly . We continued thus a whole year in perfect love and tranquillity ; and seeing that God had increased my small stock , I projected a voyage by sea , to hazard somewhat by trade . To this end I went with my two sisters to Balsora , where I bought a ship ready fitted for sea , and laded her with such merchandise as I brought from Bagdad . We set sail with a fair wind , and soon cleared the Persian gulf ; and when we got into the ocean we steered our course to the Indies , and on the twentieth day saw land . It was a very high mountain , at the foot of which we saw a great town , and having a fresh wind we soon reached the harbor , where we cast anchor . I had not patience to stay till my sisters were ready to go with me , but went ashore in the boat by myself ; and , making directly for the gate of the town , I saw there a great number of men on guard , some sitting and others standing , with sticks in their hands ; and they had all such dreadful countenances that it frightened me ; but perceiving they had no motion , not so much as with their eyes , I took courage , and went nearer , and then found they were all turned into stone . I entered the town and passed through the several streets , wherein men stood everywhere in various attitudes , but all motionless and petrified . On that side where the merchants lived I found most of the shops shut , and in such as were open I likewise found the people petrified . I looked up to the chimneys , but saw no smoke ; which made me conjecture that the inhabitants both within and without were all turned into stone . Being come into a vast square in the heart of the city , I perceived a great gate covered with plates of gold , the two doors of which stood open , and a curtain of silk stuff seemed to be drawn before it ; I also saw a lamp hanging over the gate . After I had well considered , I made no doubt but that it was the palace of the prince who reigned over that country ; and being very much astonished that I had not met with one living creature , I went thither in hopes to find some one . I entered the gate , and was still more surprised when I saw none but the guards in the porches , all petrified , some standing , some sitting , and some lying . I crossed over a large court where I saw a stately building just before me , the windows of which were enclosed with gates of massive gold : I supposed it to be the queen 's apartment , and went into a large hall , where there stood several black chamberlains turned into stone . I went from thence into a room richly hung and furnished , where I perceived a lady . I knew it to be the queen by the crown of gold that hung over her head , and a necklace of pearls about her neck , each of them as big as a nut ; I went up close to her to view it , and never beheld a finer sight . I stood some time and admired the riches and magnificence of the room ; but above all , the footcloth , the cushions and the sofas , which were all lined with Indian stuff or gold , with pictures of men and beasts in silver admirably executed . I went out of the chamber where the petrified queen was , and passed through several other apartments richly furnished , and at last came into a vast room , where was a throne of massive gold , raised several steps above the floor and enriched with large emeralds , and a bed upon the throne of rich stuff embroidered with pearls . What surprised me more than all the rest was a sparkling light which came from above the bed . Being curious to know from whence it came , I mounted the steps , and lifting up my head , I saw a diamond , as big as the egg of an ostrich , lying upon a low stool ; it was so pure that I could not find the least blemish in it , and it sparkled so brightly that I could not endure the lustre of it when I saw it by daylight . On each side of the bed 's head there stood a lighted torch , but for what use I could not comprehend ; however , it made me imagine that there was some living creature in this place , for I could not believe that these torches continued thus burning of themselves . The doors being all open , or but half shut , I surveyed some other apartments that were as fine as those I had already seen . I looked into the offices and store-rooms , which were full of infinite riches , and I was so much taken with the sight of all the wonderful things that I forgot myself ; and did not think of my ship or my sisters ; my whole design was to satisfy my curiosity . Meantime night came on , which put me in mind that it was time to retire . I was for returning by the way I came in , but I could not find it ; I lost myself among the apartments ; and finding I was come back again to that large room where the throne , the couch , the large diamond , and the torches stood , I resolved to take my night 's lodging there , and to depart the next morning betimes , to get aboard my ship . I laid myself down upon the couch , not without some dread of being alone in a desolate place ; and this fear hindered my sleep . About midnight I heard a voice like that of a man reading the Koran , after the same manner and in the same tone as we read in our mosques . Being extremely glad to hear it , I got up immediately , and , taking a torch in my hand to light me , I passed from one chamber to another on that side where the voice came from : I came to a door , where I stood still , nowise doubting that it came from thence . I set down my torch upon the ground , and looking through a window I found it to be an oratory . In short , it had , as we have in our mosques , a niche that shows where we must turn to say our prayers ; there were also lamps hung up , and two candlesticks with large tapers of white wax burning . I saw a little carpet laid down , like those we have to kneel upon when we say our prayers , and a comely young man sat upon this carpet , reading with great devotion the Koran , which lay before him upon a desk . At the sight of this I was transported with wonder . I wondered how it came to pass that he should be the only living creature in a town where all the people were turned into stones , and I did not doubt but that there was something in it very extraordinary . The door being only half shut , I opened it and went in , and standing upright before the niche , I said this prayer aloud : ` Praise be to God , who has favored us with a happy voyage , and may He be graciously pleased to protect us in the same manner until we arrive again in our own country . Hear me , O Lord , and grant my request . ' The young man cast his eyes upon me , and said , ` My good lady , pray let me know who you are , and what has brought you to this desolate city ; and , in return , I will tell you who I am , what happened to me , why the inhabitants of this city are reduced to that state you see them in , and why I alone am safe and sound in the midst of such a terrible disaster . ' I told him in few words from whence I came , what made me undertake the voyage , and how I had safely arrived at the port after twenty days ' sailing ; and when I had done I prayed him to fulfil his promise , and told him how much I was struck by the frightful desolation which I had seen in all places as I came along . ` My dear lady , ' said the young man , ` have patience for a moment . ' At these words he shut the Koran , put it into a rich case , and laid it in the niche . I took that opportunity of observing him , and perceived so much good-nature and beauty in him that I felt strange emotion . He made me sit down by him ; and before he began his discourse I could not forbear saying to him , ` Sir , I can scarcely have patience to wait for an account of all those wonderful things that I have seen since the first time I came into your city ; and my curiosity can not be satisfied too soon : therefore pray , sir , let me know by what miracle you alone are left alive among so many persons that have died in so strange a manner . ' ` Madam , ' said the young man , ` you have given me to understand that you have a knowledge of the true God by the prayer you have just now addressed to Him . I will acquaint you with the most remarkable effect of His greatness and power . You must know that this city was the metropolis of a mighty kingdom , over which the king , my father , did reign . He , his whole court , the inhabitants of the city , and all his other subjects were magi , worshippers of fire , and of Nardoun , the ancient king of the giants , who rebelled against God . ` And though I had an idolatrous father and mother , I had the good fortune in my youth to have a governess who was a good Mussulman ; I learned the Koran by heart , and understood the explanation of it perfectly . `` Dear prince , '' would she oftentimes say , `` there is but one true God ; take heed that you do not acknowledge and adore any other . '' She taught me to read Arabic , and the book she gave me to practice upon was the Koran . As soon as I was capable of understanding it , she explained to me all the heads of this excellent book , and infused piety into my mind , unknown to my father or anybody else . She happened to die , but not before she had instructed me in all that was necessary to convince me of the truth of the Mussulman religion . After her death I persisted with constancy in this belief ; and I abhor the false god Nardoun , and the adoration of fire . ` It is about three years and some months ago that a thundering voice was heard , all of a sudden , so distinctly , through the whole city that nobody could miss hearing it . The words were these : `` InhabitantsS , abandon the worship of Nardoun , and of fire , and worship the only God that shows mercy . '' ` This voice was heard for three years successively , but nobody was converted : so on the last day of the year , at four o'clock in the morning , all the inhabitants were changed in an instant into stone , every one in the same condition and posture they happened to be then in . The king , my father , had the same fate , for he was metamorphosed into a black stone , as he is to be seen in this palace ; and the queen , my mother , had the like destiny . ` I am the only person that did not suffer under that heavy judgment , and ever since I have continued to serve God with more fervency than before . I am persuaded , dear lady , that He has sent you hither for my comfort , for which I render Him infinite thanks ; for I must own that this solitary life is very unpleasant . ' ` Prince , ' said I , ` there is no doubt that Providence hath brought me into your port to present you with an opportunity of withdrawing from this dismal place . The ship that I came in may in some measure persuade you that I am in some esteem at Bagdad , where I have also left a considerable estate ; and I dare engage to promise you sanctuary there , until the mighty Commander of the Faithful , who is vice-regent to our Prophet , whom you acknowledge , shows you the honor that is due to your merit . This renowned prince lives at Bagdad , and as soon as he is informed of your arrival in his capital , you will find that it is not vain to implore his assistance . It is impossible you can stay any longer in a city where all the objects you see must renew your grief : my vessel is at your service , where you may absolutely command as you think fit . ' He accepted the offer , and we discoursed the remaining part of the night about our sailing . As soon as it was day we left the palace , and came aboard my ship , where we found my sisters , the captain , and the slaves , all very much troubled at my absence . After I had presented my sisters to the prince , I told them what had hindered my return to the vessel the day before , how I had met with the young prince , his story , and the cause of the desolation of so fine a city . The seamen were taken up several days in unlading the merchandise I had brought with me , and embarking instead all the precious things in the palace , jewels , gold and money . We left the furniture and goods , which consisted of an infinite quantity of plate , etc. , because our vessel could not carry it , for it would have required several vessels more to carry all the riches to Bagdad that we might have chosen to take with us . After we had laden the vessel with what we thought fit , we took such provisions and water aboard as were necessary for our voyage -LRB-B- for we had still a great deal of those provisions left that we had taken in at Balsora -RRB-B- : at last we set sail with a wind as favourable as we could wish . The young prince , my sisters and myself enjoyed ourselves for some time very agreeably ; but alas ! this good understanding did not last long , for my sisters grew jealous of the friendship between the prince and me , and maliciously asked me one day what we should do with him when we came to Bagdad . I perceived immediately why they put this question to me ; therefore , resolving to put it off with a jest , I answered them , ` I will take him for my husband ' ; and upon that , turning myself to the prince , ` Sir , ' said I , ` I humbly beg of you to give your consent ; for as soon as we come to Bagdad I design to do you all the service that is in my power and to resign myself wholly to your commands . ' The prince answered , ` I know not , madam , whether you be in jest or no ; but for my own part I seriously declare , before these ladies your sisters , that from this moment I heartily accept your offer , as my lady and mistress . Nor will I pretend to have any power over your actions . ' At these words my sisters changed color , and I could perceive afterwards that they did not love me as formerly . We had come into the Persian Gulf , not far from Balsora , where I hoped , considering the fair wind , we might arrive the day following ; but in the night , when I was asleep , my sisters watched their time and threw me overboard . They did the same to the prince , who was drowned . I swam for some minutes in the water ; but by good fortune , or rather miracle , I soon felt ground . I went towards a black place , that , so far as I could discern in the dark , seemed to be land , and actually was a flat on the coast . When day came , I found it to be a desert island , lying about twenty miles from Balsora . I soon dried my clothes in the sun ; and as I walked along I found several sorts of fruit , and likewise fresh water , which gave me some hope of preserving my life . I laid myself down in the shade and soon after I saw a winged serpent , very large and long , coming towards me , wriggling to the right and to the left , and hanging out his tongue , which made me think he was ill. . I arose , and saw a larger serpent following him , holding him by the tail , and endeavoring to devour him . I had compassion on him , and instead of flying away , I had the boldness and courage to take up a stone that by chance lay by me , and threw it with all my strength at the great serpent , whom I hit on the head , and killed him . The other , finding himself at liberty , took to his wings and flew away . I looked a long while after him in the air , as an extraordinary thing ; but he flew out of sight , and I lay down again in another place in the shade , and fell asleep . When I awoke , judge how surprised I was to see by me a black woman , of lively and agreeable looks , who held , tied together in her hand , two dogs of the same color . I sat up and asked her who she was . ' I am , ' said she , ` the serpent whom you delivered not long since from my mortal enemy . I knew not how to acknowledge the great kindness you did me , but by doing what I have done . I knew the treachery of your sisters , and , to revenge you on them , as soon as I was set at liberty by your generous assistance I called several of my companions together , fairies like myself . We have carried into your storehouses at Bagdad all your lading that was in your vessel , and afterwards sunk it . ` These two black dogs are your sisters , whom I have transformed into this shape . But this punishment is not sufficient ; for I will have you treat them after such a manner as I shall direct . ' At those words the fairy took me fast under one of her arms , and the two dogs in the other , and carried me to my house in Bagdad , where I found in my storehouses all the riches which were laden on board my vessel . Before she left me she delivered the two dogs , and told me , ` If you will not be changed into a dog as they are , I order you to give each of your sisters every night a hundred lashes with a rod , for the punishment of the crime they have committed against your person and the young prince whom they drowned . ' I was forced to promise that I would obey her order . For many months I whipped them every night , though with regret . I gave evidence by my tears with how much sorrow and reluctance I must perform this cruel duty . Now the fairy had left with me a bundle of hair , saying withal that her presence would one day be of use to me ; and then , if I only burnt two tufts of this hair , she would be with me in a moment , though she were beyond Mount Caucasus . Desirous at length to see the fairy and beg her to restore the two black dogs , my sisters , to their proper shape , I caused fire one day to be brought in , and threw the whole bundle of hair into it . The house began to shake at that very instant , and the fairy appeared in the form of a lady very richly dressed . I besought her , with every form of entreaty I could employ , to restore my sisters to their natural shape , and to release me from the cruel duty that I had always unwillingly performed . The fairy at length consented , and desired a bowl of water to be brought ; she pronounced over it some words which I did not understand , and then sprinkled the water upon the dogs . They immediately became two ladies of surprising beauty , and I recognized in them the sisters to whose human form I had so long been a stranger . They soon after married the sons of kings , and lived happily for the rest of their lives .