THE SERVANT GIRL JUSTIFIED La Fontain BOCCACE alone is not my only source ; T ` another shop I now shall have recourse ; Though , certainly , this famed Italian wit Has many stories for my purpose fit . But since of diff ` rent dishes we should taste ; Upon an ancient work my hands I 've placed ; Where full a hundred narratives are told , And various characters we may behold ; From life , Navarre 's fair queen the fact relates ; My story int ` rest in her page creates ; Beyond dispute from her we always find , Simplicity with striking art combin 'd . Yet , whether ` tis the queen who writes , or not ; I shall , as usual , here and there allot Whate'er additions requisite appear ; Without such license I 'd not persevere , But quit , at once , narrations of the sort ; Some may be long , though others are too short . LET us proceed , howe'er -LRB-B- our plan explained : -RRB-B- A pretty servant-girl a man retain 'd . She pleas 'd his eye , and presently he thought , With ease she might to am ` rous sports be brought ; He prov 'd not wrong ; the wench was blithe and gay , A buxom lass , most able ev ` ry way . AT dawn , one summer 's morn , the spark was led To rise , and leave his wife asleep in bed ; He sought at once the garden , where he found The servant-girl collecting flow ` rs around , To make a nosegay for his better half , Whose birth-day 'twas : -- he soon began to laugh , And while the ranging of the flow ` rs he prais 'd , The servant 's neckerchief he slyly rais 'd . Who , suddenly , on feeling of the hand , Resistance feign 'd , and seem 'd to make a stand ; But since these liberties were nothing new , They other fun and frolicks would pursue ; The nosegay at the fond gallant was thrown ; The flow ` rs he kiss 'd , and now more ardent grown They romp 'd and rattl 'd , play 'd and skipt around ; At length the fair one fell upon the ground ; Our am ` rous spark advantage took of this , And nothing with the couple seem 'd amiss . UNLUCKILY , a neighbour 's prying eyes Beheld their playful pranks with great surprise , She , from her window , could the scene o ` erlook ; When this the fond gallant observ 'd , he shook ; Said he , by heav ` ns ! our frolicking is seen , By that old haggard , envious , prying quean ; But do not heed it ; instantly he chose To run and wake his wife , who quickly rose ; -- So much the dame he fondl 'd and caress 'd , The garden walk she took at his request , To have a nosegay , where he play 'd anew PranksS just the same as those of recent view , Which highly gratified our lady fair , Who felt dispos 'd , and would at eve repair , To her good neighbor , whom she bursting found , With what she 'd seen that morn upon the ground . THE usual greetings o ` er , our envious dame , With scowling brow exclaim 'd , -- my dear , your fame , I love too much not fully to detail , What I have witnessed , and with truth bewail ; Will you continue , in your house to keep A girl , whose conduct almost makes me weep ? Anon I 'd kick her from your house , I say ; The strumpet should not stay another day . The wife replied , you surely are deceiv 'd ; An honest , virtuous creature she 's believ 'd . Well , I can easily , my friend , suppose , Rejoin 'd the neighbor , whence this favor flows ; But look about , and be convinc 'd , this morn From my own window -LRB-B- true as you are born , -RRB-B- Within the garden I your husband spi 'd And presently the servant girl I ey 'd ; At one another various flow ` rs they threw , And then the minx a little graver grew . I understand you , cried the list ` ning fair ; You are deceiv 'd : -- myself alone was there . Neighbour But patience , if you please : attend I pray You 've no conception what I meant to say : The playful fair was actively employ 'd , In plucking am ` rous flow ` rs -- they kiss 'd and toy 'd . Wife 'Twas clearly I , howe'er , for her you took . Neighbour The flow ` rs for bosoms quickly they forsook ; Large handfuls frequently they seem 'd to grasp , And ev ` ry beauty in its turn to clasp . Wife But still , why think you , friend , it was not I ? Has not your spouse with you a right to try What freaks he likes ? Neighbour But then , upon the ground This girl was thrown , and never cried nor frown 'd ; You laugh . -- Wife Indeed I do , 'twas myself . Neighbour A flannel petticoat display 'd the elf . Wife 'Twas mine : Neighbour Be patient : -- and inform me , pray , If this were worn by you or her to-day ? There lies the point , for , if you 'll me believe , Your husband did -- the most you can conceive . Wife How hard of credence ! -- 'twas myself I vow . Neighbour Oh ! that 's conclusive ; I 'll be silent now ; Though truly I am led to think , my eyes Are pretty sharp , and much I feel surprise At what you say ; in fact , I would have sworn , I saw them thus at romps this very morn ; Excuse the hint , and do not turn her off . Wife Why , turn her off ? -- the very thought I scoff ; She serves me well . Neighbour And so it seems is taught ; By all means keep her then , since thus she 's thought .