THE THREE GOSSIPS ' WAGER La Fontain AS o ` er their wine one day , three gossips sat , Discoursing various pranks in pleasant chat , Each had a loving friend , and two of these Most clearly managed matters at their ease . SAID one , a princely husband I have got . A better in the world there 's surely not ; With him I can adjust as humor fits , No need to rise at early dawn , like cits , To prove to him that two and three make four , Or ask his leave to ope or shut the door . UPON my word , replied another fair , If he were mine , I openly declare , To judge from what so pleasantly you say , I 'd make a present of him new-year 's day . For pleasure never gives me full delight , Unless a little pain the bliss invite . No doubt your husband moves as he is led ; Thank heav ` n a different mortal claims my bed ; To take him in , great nicety we need ; But howsoe'er , at times I can succeed ; The satisfaction doubly then is felt : -- In fond emotion bosoms freely melt . With neither of you , husband or gallant , Would I exchange , though these so much you vaunt . ON this , the third with candor interfer 'd ; She thought that oft the god of love appear 'd , Good husbands playfully to fret and vex , Sometimes to rally couples : then perplex ; But warmer as the conversation grew , She , anxious that each disputant might view Herself victorious , -LRB-B- or believe it so , -RRB-B- Exclaim 'd , if either of you wish to show Who 's in the right , with argument have done , And let us practice some new scheme of fun , To dupe our husbands ; she who do n't succeed Shall pay a forfeit ; all replied , `` Agreed . '' But then , continued she , we ought to take An oath , that we will full discov ` ry make , To one another of the various facts , Without disguising even trifling acts . And then , good upright Macae shall decide ; Thus things arrang 'd , the ladies homeward plied . SHE , ` mong the three , who felt the most constraint Ador 'd a youth , contemporaries paint , Well made and handsome , but with beardless chin , Which led the pair a project to begin ; For yet no opportunity they 'd found , T ' enjoy their wishes , save by stealth around ; Most ardently she sought to be at ease , And 'twas agreed the lucky thought to seize That like a chambermaid he should be dress 'd , And then proceed to execute the jest , Attend upon the wily , wedded pair , And offer services with modest air And downcast eyes ; the husband on her leer 'd , And in her favor prepossess 'd appear 'd , In hopes one day , to find those pleasing charms Resign 'd in secret to his longing arms . Such pretty cheeks and sparkling eyes he thought , Had ne'er till then his roving fancy caught ; The girl was hir 'd , but seemingly with pain , Since PRUDENCE ultimately might complain , That -LRB-B- maid and master both so very young -RRB-B- ` Twould not be wonderful if things went wrong . AT first the husband inattention show 'd , And scarcely on the maid a look bestow 'd ; But presently he chang 'd his conduct quite , And presents gave , with promises not slight ; At length the servant feign 'd to lend an ear , And anxious seem 'd obliging to appear . THE trap our cunning lovers having laid , One eve this message brought the smiling maid ; My lady , sir , is ill , and rest requires , To sleep alone to-night she much desires . To grant the master 's wish the girl was led , And they together hurried off to bed . THE husband ` tween the sheets himself had plac 'd ; The nymph was in her petticoat , unlac 'd ; When suddenly appear 'd the wily wife , And promis 'd harmony was turn 'd to strife . Are these your freaks , cried she with mark 'd surprise ; Your usual dish it seems then do n't suffice ; You want , indeed , to have some nicer fare ? A little sooner , by the saints I swear , You 'd me a pretty trick , ` tis clear , have shown , And doubtless , then , tit bits to keep been prone . This , howsoe'er , to get you 're not design 'd , So elsewhere you may try what you can find . And as to you , miss Prettyface , you jade , Good heav ` ns ! to think a paltry servant maid Should rival me ? I 'll beat you black and blue ! The bread I eat , indeed , must be for you ? But I know better , and indeed am clear , Not one around will fancy I appear So void of charms , so faded , wither 'd , lost , That I should out of doors at once be tost ; But I will manage matters : -- I design This girl no other bed shall have than mine ; Then who so bold to touch her there will dare ? Come , Miss , let 's to my room at once repair ; Away -- your things to-morrow you can seek ; If scandal ` twould spread around , I 'd wreak My vengeance instantly , and turn you out ; But I am lenient , and desire no rout ; Perhaps your ruin may be sav 'd by care ; So night and day your company I 'll share ; No more my bosom then will feel dismay , For I shall see that you no frolicks play . ON this the trembling girl , o ` ercome with fears ; Held down her head and seem 'd to hide her tears ; Pick 'd up her clothes and quickly stole away , As if afraid her mistress more might say ; And hop 'd to act the maid while Sol gave light , But play at ease the fond gallant at night ; At once she fill 'd two places in the house , And thought in both the husband she should chouse , Who bless 'd his stars that he 'd escap 'd so well , And sneak 'd alone to rest within his cell , While our gay , am ` rous pair advantage took , To play at will , and ev ` ry solace hook , Convinc 'd most thoroughly , once lovers kiss 'd , That OPPORTUNITY should n ` er be miss 'd . Here ends the trick our wily gossip play 'd ; But now let 's see the plot another laid . THE second dame , whose husband was so meek , That only from her lips the truth he 'd seek , When seated with him ` neath a pear tree 's shade , Contriv 'd at ease and her arrangement made . The story I shall presently relate ; The butler , strong , well dress 'd , and full of prate : Who often made the other servants trot , Stood near when madam hit upon her plot , To whom she said , I wish the fruit to taste ; On which the man prepar 'd with ev ` ry haste , To climb the tree , and off the produce shook ; But while above , the fellow gave a look Upon the ground below , and feign 'd he saw The spouse and wife -- do more than kiss and paw : The servant rubb 'd his eyes , as if in doubt , And cried : why truly , sir , if you 're so stout , That you must revel ` mid your lady 's charms , Pray elsewhere take her to your longing arms , Where you at ease may frolick hours or days , Without my witnessing your loving ways ; Indeed , I 'm quite surprised at what I spy In publick , ` neath a tree such pranks to try ! And , if you do n't a servant 's presence heed , With decency howe'er you should proceed . What , still go on ? for shame , I say , for shame ! Pray wait till by and by ; you 're much to blame ; Besides , the nights are long enough you 'll find ; Heav ` n genial joys for privacy design 'd ; And why this place , when you 've nice chambers got ? What , cried the lady , says this noisy sot ? He surely dreams ; Where can he learn these tales ? Come down ; let 's see what ` tis the fellow ails . Down William came . How ? said the master , how ? Are we at play ? William Not now , sir , no , not now . Husband Why , when then , friend ? William While I was in the tree , Alive , sir , flay me , if I did not see You on the verdant lawn my lady lay , And kiss , and toy , and other frolicks play . Wife ` Twere surely better if thou held ` st thy tongue , Or thou ` lt a beating get before ` tis long . Husband No , no , my dear , he 's mad , and I design The fellow in a madhouse to confine . William Is ` t folly , pray , to see what we behold ? Wife What hast thou seen ? William What I 've already told : -- My master and yourself at Cupid 's game , Or else the tree 's enchanted I proclaim . Wife ENCHANTED ! nonsense ; such a sight to see ! Husband To know the truth myself , I 'll climb the tree , Then you the fact will quickly from me learn ; We may believe what we ourselves discern . SOON as the master they above descried , And that below our pair he sharply eyed , The butler took the lady in his arms , And grew at once familiar with her charms ; At sight of this the husband gave a yell : Made haste to reach the ground , and nearly fell ; Such liberties he wish 'd at once to stop , Since what he 'd seen had nearly made him drop . How ! how ! -- cried he : -- what , e ` en before my sight ? What can you mean ? said she without affright . Husband DAR ` ST thou to ask again ? Wife AND why not , pray ? Husband FINE , pretty doings ! -- Presently you 'll say ; That what I 've seen ` tis folly to believe . Wife Too much is this : -- such accusations grieve . Husband Thou did ` st most clearly suffer his embrace . Wife I ? WHY , you dream ! Husband This seems a curious case . MY reason 's flown ' ! or have I lost my eyes ? Wife CAN you suppose my character I prize So very little , that these pranks I 'd play Before your face , when I might ev ` ry day Find minutes to divert myself at will , And -LRB-B- if lik 'd such frolicks -RRB-B- take my fill ? Husband I KNOW not what to think nor what to do ; P ` rhaps this same tree can tricks at will pursue ; Let 's see again ; aloft he went once more , And William acted as he 'd done before ; But now the husband saw the playful squeeze ; Without emotion , and returned at ease . To find the cause , said he , no longer try , The tree 's enchanted , we may well rely . SINCE , that 's the fact , replied the cunning jade ; To burn it , quickly William seek fort aid ; The tree accurst no longer shall remain ; Her will the servant wish 'd not to restrain , But soon some workmen brought , who felled the tree ; And wondered what the fault our fair could see . Down hew it , cried the lady , that 's your task ; More concerns you not ; folly ` tis to ask . OUR second gossip thus obtained success ; But now the third : we 'll see if she had less : To female friends she often visits paid , And various pastimes there had daily play 'd ; A leering lover who was weary grown , Desired ONE night she 'd meet him quite alone . TWO , if you will , replied the smiling fair ; A trifle ` tis you ask , and I 'll repair Where'er you wish , and we 'll recline at ease ; My husband I can manage , if I please , While thus engag 'd . -- The parties soon agreed ; But still the lady for her wits had need , Since her dear man from home but rarely went , No pardons sought at Rome , but was content With what he nearer got , while his sweet wife More fondness mark 'd for gratifying life , And ever anxious , warmest zeal to show , Was always wishing distant scenes to know ; As pilgrim oft she 'd trod a foreign road , But now desir 'd those ancient ways t ` explode ; A plan more rare and difficult she sought , And round her toe our wily dame bethought , To tie a pack-thread , fasten 'd to the door , Which open 'd to the street : then feign 'd to snore Beside her husband , Harry Berlinguier , -LRB-B- So , usually , they nam 'd her wedded dear . -RRB-B- HOWE ` ER , so cunningly with him she dealt , That Harry turn 'd , and soon the pack-thread felt , Which rais 'd distrust , and led him to suspect Some bad design the thread was meant t ` effect . A LITTLE time , as if asleep , he lay Considering how to act , or what to say ; Then rose , -LRB-B- his spouse believing not awake , -RRB-B- And softly treading , lest the room should shake ; The pack-thread follow 'd to the outer door , And thence concluded -LRB-B- what he might deplore , -RRB-B- That his dear partner from her faith would stray , And some gallant that night design 'd to play The lover 's part and draw the secret clue , When she would rise , and with him freaks pursue , While he -LRB-B- good husband ! -RRB-B- quietly in bed Might sleep , not dreaming that his wife had fled . FOR otherwise , what use such pains to take ? A visit cuckoldom , perhaps , might make ; An honor that he 'd willingly decline ; On which he studied how to countermine ; And like a sentinel mov 'd to and fro ' , To watch if any one would thither go To pull the string , that he could see with ease , And then he 'd instantly the culprit seize . THE reader will perceive , we may suppose , Besides the entrance which the husband chose , On t ` other side a door , where our gallant Could enter readily , as he might want , And there the spark a chambermaid let in : -- Oft servants prone are found a bribe to win . WHILE Berlinguier thus watch 'd around and round ; The friends with one another pleasures found ; But heav ` n alone knows how nor what they were : -- No fact transpir 'd save all was free from care ; So well the servant kept the careful watch , That not a chance was given the pair to catch : THE spark at dawn the lady left alone , And ere the husband came the bird was flown ; Then Harry , weary , took his place again , Complaining , that he 'd felt such racking pain , And dreading , lest alarms her breast should seize , Within another room he 'd sought for ease . Two days had pass 'd , when madam thought once more , To set the thread , as she had done before ; He left the bed , pretending he was sick , Resumed his post ; again the lover came , And , with my lady , play 'd the former game . THE scheme so well succeeded , that the pair Thrice wish 'd to try the wily pack-thread snare ; The husband with the cholic mov 'd away , His place the bold gallant resum 'd till day . AT length their ardor ` gan , it seems , to cool , And Harry , they no longer tried to fool ; 'Twas time to seek the myst ` ry of the plot , Since , to three acts , the comedy was got . AT midnight , when the spark had left the bed ; A servant , by his orders , drew the thread ; On whom the husband , without fear , laid hold , And with him enter 'd like a soldier bold , Not then supposing he 'd a valet seiz 'd ; Well tim 'd it prov 'd , howe'er ; -- the lady pleas 'd Her voice to raise , on hearing what was said , And through the house confusion quickly spread . THE valet now before them bent the knee , And openly declar 'd , he came to see The chambermaid , whom he was wont to greet , And by the thread to rouse when time to meet : ARE these your knavish tricks , replied the dame , With eyes upon her maid that darted flame ; When I by chance observ 'd about your toe , A thread one night , I then resolv 'd to know Your scheme in full , and round my own I tied A clue , on which I thoroughly relied , To catch this gay gallant , that you pretend Your husband will become , I apprehend . Be that as ` twill , to-night from hence you go . My dear , said Berlinguier , I 'd fain say no ; Let things remain until to-morrow , pray And then my lady presently gave way . A fortune Harry on the girl bestow 'd ; The like our valet to his master ow 'd ; To church the happy couple smiling went : -- They 'd known each other long , and were content . THUS ended then , the third and last amour ; The trio hasten 'd Macae to implore , To say which gain 'd the bet , who soon replied : -- I find it , friends , not easy to decide . THE case hangs up , and there will long remain ; ` Tis often thus when justice we 'd obtain :