THE FOURTH VOYAGE OF SINBAD THE SAILOR . Arabian Writer The pleasures I took after my third voyage had not charms enough to divert me from another . I was again prevailed upon by my passion for traffic and curiosity to see new things . I therefore settled my affairs , and having provided a stock of goods fit for the places where I designed to trade , I set out on my journey . I took the way of Persia , of which I traveled over several provinces , and then arrived at a port , where I embarked . We set sail , and having touched at several ports of the mainland and some of the eastern islands , we put out to sea , and were overtaken by a sudden gust of wind that obliged the captain to furl his sails , and to take all other necessary precautions to prevent the danger that threatened us . But all was in vain ; our endeavors had no effect , the sails were torn into a thousand pieces , and the ship was stranded ; so that a great many of the merchants and seamen were drowned , and the cargo lost . I had the good fortune , with several of the merchants and mariners , to get a plank , and we were carried by the current to an island which lay before us : there we found fruit and spring water , which preserved our lives . We stayed all night near the place where the sea cast us ashore , without consulting what we should do , our misfortune had dispirited us so much . Next morning , as soon as the sun was up , we walked from the shore , and advancing into the island , saw some houses , to which we went ; and as soon as we came thither we were encompassed by a great number of black men , who seized us , shared us among them , and carried us to their respective habitations . I and five of my comrades were carried to one place ; they made us sit down immediately , and gave us a certain herb , which they made signs to us to eat . My comrades , not taking notice that the black men ate none of it themselves , consulted only the satisfying of their own hunger , and fell to eating with greediness : but I , suspecting some trick , would not so much as taste it , which happened well for me ; for in a little time I perceived my companions had lost their senses , and that when they spoke to me they knew not what they said . The black men fed us afterwards with rice , prepared with oil of cocoanuts , and my comrades , who had lost their reason , ate of it greedily . I ate of it also , but very sparingly . The black men gave us that herb at first on purpose to deprive us of our senses , that we might not be aware of the sad destiny prepared for us ; and they gave us rice on purpose to fatten us , for , being cannibals , their design was to eat us as soon as we grew fat . They did accordingly eat my comrades , who were not aware of their condition ; but my senses being entire , you may easily guess that instead of growing fat , as the rest did , I grew leaner every day . The fear of death under which I labored turned all my food into poison . I fell into a languishing illness which proved my safety , for the black men having killed and eaten up my companions , seeing me to be withered , lean , and sick , deferred my death till another time . Meanwhile , I had a great deal of liberty , so that there was scarcely any notice taken of what I did , and this gave me an opportunity one day to get at a distance from the houses , and to make my escape . An old man who saw me , and suspected my design , called to me as loud as he could to return , but instead of obeying him , I redoubled my pace , and quickly got out of sight . At that time there was none but the old man about the houses , the rest being away , and not to come home till night , which was pretty usual with them ; therefore , being sure that they could not come in time to pursue me , I went on till night , when I stopped to rest a little , and to eat some of the provisions I had taken care to bring ; but I speedily set forward again , and traveled seven days , avoiding those places which seemed to be inhabited , and living for the most part upon cocoanuts , which served me for both meat and drink . On the eighth day I came near the sea , and all of a sudden saw white people like myself , gathering pepper , of which there was great plenty in that place . This I took to be a good omen , and went to them without any scruple . The people who gathered pepper came to meet me as soon as they saw me , and asked me in Arabic who I was , and whence I came . I was overjoyed to hear them speak in my own language , and satisfied their curiosity by giving them an account of my shipwreck , and how I fell into the hands of the black men . ` Those black men , ' replied they , ` are cannibals , and by what miracle did you escape their cruelty ? ' I told them the same story I now tell you , at which they were wonderfully surprised . I stayed with them till they had gathered their quantity of pepper , and then sailed with them to the island from whence they came . They presented me to their king , who was a good prince . He had the patience to hear the relation of my adventures , which surprised him , and he afterwards gave me clothes , and commanded care to be taken of me . The island was very well peopled , plentiful in everything , and the capital was a place of great trade . This agreeable retreat was very comfortable to me after my misfortune , and the kindness of this generous prince towards me completed my satisfaction . In a word , there was not a person more in favor with him than myself ; and , in consequence , every man in court and city sought to oblige me , so that in a very little time I was looked upon rather as a native than a stranger . I observed one thing which to me appeared very extraordinary . All the people , the king himself not excepted , rode their horses without bridle or stirrups . This made me one day take the liberty to ask the king how that came to pass . His majesty answered , that I talked to him of things which nobody knew the use of in his dominions . I went immediately to a workman , and gave him a model for making the stock of a saddle . When that was done , I covered it myself with velvet and leather , and embroidered it with gold . I afterwards went to a locksmith , who made me a bridle according to the pattern I showed him , and then he made me also some stirrups . When I had all things completed , I presented them to the king , and put them upon one of his horses . His majesty mounted immediately , and was so pleased with them , that he testified his satisfaction by large presents to me . I could not avoid making several others for his ministers and the principal officers of his household , who all of them made me presents that enriched me in a little time . I also made some for the people of best quality in the city , which gained me great reputation and regard . As I paid court very constantly to the king , he said to me one day , ` Sinbad , I love thee ; and all my subjects who know thee treat thee according to my example . I have one thing to demand of thee , which thou must grant . ' ` Sir , ' answered I , ` there is nothing but I will do , as a mark of my obedience to your majesty , whose power over me is absolute . ' ` I have a mind thou shouldst marry , ' replied he , ` that so thou mayst stay in my dominion , and think no more of thy own country . ' I dared not resist the prince 's will , and so he gave me one of the ladies of his court , a noble , beautiful , and rich lady . The ceremonies of marriage being over , I went and dwelt with the lady , and for some time we lived together in perfect harmony . I was not , however , very well satisfied with my condition , and therefore designed to make my escape on the first occasion , and to return to Bagdad , which my present settlement , how advantageous soever , could not make me forget . While I was thinking on this , the wife of one of my neighbors , with whom I had contracted a very close friendship , fell sick and died . I went to see and comfort him in his affliction , and finding him swallowed up with sorrow , I said to him as soon as I saw him , ` God preserve you and grant you a long life . ' ` Alas ! ' replied he , ` how do you think I should obtain that favor you wish me ? I have not above an hour to live . ' ` Pray , ' said I , ` do not entertain such a melancholy thought ; I hope it will not be so , but that I shall enjoy your company for many years . ' ` I wish you , ' said he , ` a long life ; but for me my days are at an end , for I must be buried this day with my wife . This is a law which our ancestors established in this island , and always observed inviolably . The living husband is interred with the dead wife , and the living wife with the dead husband . Nothing can save me ; every one must submit to this law . ' While he was entertaining me with an account of this barbarous custom , the very hearing of which frightened me cruelly , his kindred , friends and neighbors came in a body to assist at the funerals . They put on the corpse the woman 's richest apparel , as if it had been her wedding-day , and dressed her with all her jewels ; then they put her into an open coffin , and lifting it up , began their march to the place of burial . The husband walked at the head of the company , and followed the corpse . They went up to a high mountain , and when they came thither , took up a great stone , which covered the mouth of a very deep pit , and let down the corpse , with all its apparel and jewels . Then the husband , embracing his kindred and friends , suffered himself to be put into another open coffin without resistance , with a pot of water , and seven little loaves , and was let down in the same manner as they let down his wife . The mountain was pretty long , and reached to the sea . The ceremony being over , they covered the hole again with the stone , and returned . It is needless to say that I was the only melancholy spectator of this funeral , whereas the rest were scarcely moved at it , the practice was so customary to them . I could not forbear speaking my thoughts on this matter to the king . ` Sir , ' said I , ` I can not but wonder at the strange custom in this country of burying the living with the dead . I have been a great traveller , and seen many countries , but never heard of so cruel a law . ' ` What do you mean , Sinbad ? ' said the king ; ` it is a common law . I shall be interred with the queen , my wife , if she die first . ' ` But , sir , ' said I , ` may I presume to ask your majesty if strangers be obliged to observe this law ? ' ` Without doubt , ' replied the king , smiling at my question ; ` they are not exempted , if they are married in this island . ' I went home very melancholy at this answer , for the fear of my wife dying first , and my being interred alive with her , occasioned me very mortifying reflections . But there was no remedy : I must have patience , and submit to the will of God . I trembled , however , at every little indisposition of my wife ; but alas ! in a little time my fears came upon me all at once , for she fell ill , and died in a few days . You may judge of my sorrow ; to be interred alive seemed to me as deplorable an end as to be devoured by cannibals . But I must submit ; the king and all his court would honor the funeral with their presence , and the most considerable people of the city would do the like . When all was ready for the ceremony , the corpse was put into a coffin , with all her jewels and magnificent apparel . The cavalcade began , and , as second actor in this doleful tragedy , I went next to the corpse , with my eyes full of tears , bewailing my deplorable fate . Before I came to the mountain , I addressed myself to the king , in the first place , and then to all those who were round me , and bowing before them to the earth to kiss the border of their garments , I prayed them to have compassion upon me . ` Consider , ' said I , ` that I am a stranger , and ought not to be subject to this rigorous law , and that I have another wife and child in my own country . ' It was to no purpose for me to speak thus , no soul was moved at it ; on the contrary , they made haste to let down my wife 's corpse into the pit , and put me down the next moment in an open coffin , with a vessel full of water and seven loaves . In short , the fatal ceremony being performed , they covered up the mouth of the pit , notwithstanding the excess of my grief and my lamentable cries . As I came near the bottom , I discovered , by help of the little light that came from above , the nature of this subterranean place ; it was a vast long cave , and might be about fifty fathoms deep . I immediately smelt an insufferable stench proceeding from the multitude of corpses which I saw on the right and left ; nay , I fancied that I heard some of them sigh out their last . However , when I got down , I immediately left my coffin , and , getting at a distance from the corpses , lay down upon the ground , where I stayed a long time , bathed in tears . Then reflecting on my sad lot , ` It is true , ' said I , ` that God disposes all things according to the decrees of His providence ; but , poor Sinbad , art not thou thyself the cause of thy being brought to die so strange a death ? Would to God thou hadst perished in some of those tempests which thou hast escaped ! Then thy death had not been so lingering and terrible in all its circumstances . But thou hast drawn all this upon thyself by thy cursed avarice . Ah ! unfortunate wretch , shouldst thou not rather have stayed at home , and quietly enjoyed the fruits of thy labor ? ' Such were the vain complaints with which I made the cave echo , beating my head and breast out of rage and despair , and abandoning myself to the most afflicting thoughts . Nevertheless , I must tell you that , instead of calling death to my assistance in that miserable condition , I felt still an inclination to live , and to do all I could to prolong my days . I went groping about , with my nose stopped , for the bread and water that was in my coffin , and took some of it . Though the darkness of the cave was so great that I could not distinguish day and night , yet I always found my coffin again , and the cave seemed to be more spacious and fuller of corpses than it appeared to me at first . I lived for some days upon my bread and water , which being all used up at last I prepared for death . As I was thinking of death , I heard something walking , and blowing or panting as it walked . I advanced towards that side from whence I heard the noise , and upon my approach the thing puffed and blew harder , as if it had been running away from me . I followed the noise , and the thing seemed to stop sometimes , but always fled and blew as I approached . I followed it so long and so far that at last I perceived a light resembling a star ; I went on towards that light , and sometimes lost sight of it , but always found it again , and at last discovered that it came through a hole in the rock large enough for a man to get out at . Upon this I stopped some time to rest myself , being much fatigued with pursuing this discovery so fast . Afterwards coming up to the hole I went out at it , and found myself upon the shore of the sea . I leave you to guess the excess of my joy ; it was such that I could scarce persuade myself of its being real . But when I had recovered from my surprise , and was convinced of the truth of the matter , I found that the thing which I had followed and heard puff and blow was a creature which came out of the sea , and was accustomed to enter at that hole to feed upon the dead carcasses . I examined the mountain , and perceived it to be situated betwixt the sea and the town , but without any passage or way to communicate with the latter , the rocks on the side of the sea were so rugged and steep . I fell down upon the shore to thank God for this mercy , and afterwards entered the cave again to fetch bread and water , which I did by daylight , with a better appetite than I had done since my interment in the dark hole . I returned thither again , and groped about among the biers for all the diamonds , rubies , pearls , gold bracelets , and rich stuffs I could find . These I brought to the shore , and , tying them up neatly into bales with the cords that let down the coffins , I laid them together upon the bank to wait till some ship passed by , without fear of rain , for it was not then the season . After two or three days I perceived a ship that had but just come out of the harbor and passed near the place where I was . I made a sign with the linen of my turban , and called to them as loud as I could . They heard me , and sent a boat to bring me on board , when the mariners asked by what misfortune I came thither . I told them that I had suffered shipwreck two days ago , and made shift to get ashore with the goods they saw . It was happy for me that those people did not consider the place where I was , nor inquire into the probability of what I told them ; but without any more ado took me on board with my goods . When I came to the ship , the captain was so well pleased to have saved me , and so much taken up with his own affairs , that he also took the story of my pretended shipwreck upon trust , and generously refused some jewels which I offered him . We passed with a regular wind by several islands , among others the one called the Isle of Bells , about ten days ' sail from Serendib , and six from that of Kela , where we landed . This island produces lead from its mines , Indian canes , and excellent camphor . The king of the Isle of Kela is very rich and potent , and the Isle of Bells , which is about two days ' journey in extent , is also subject to him . The inhabitants are so barbarous that they still eat human flesh . After we had finished our commerce in that island we put to sea again , and touched at several other ports . At last I arrived happily at Bagdad with infinite riches , of which it is needless to trouble you with the detail . Out of thankfulness to God for His mercies , I gave great alms for the support of several mosques , and for the subsistence of the poor , and employed myself wholly in enjoying the society of my kindred and friends , and in making merry with them .