THE SEVENTH AND LAST VOYAGE OF SINBAD THE SAILOR . Arabian Writer Being returned from my sixth voyage , I absolutely laid aside all thoughts of traveling any farther ; for , besides that my years now required rest , I was resolved no more to expose myself to such risk as I had run ; so that I thought of nothing but to pass the rest of my days in quiet . One day , as I was treating some of my friends , one of my servants came and told me that an officer of the caliph asked for me . I rose from the table , and went to him . ` The caliph , ' said he , ` has sent me to tell you that he must speak with you . ' I followed the officer to the palace , where , being presented to the caliph , I saluted him by prostrating myself at his feet . ` Sinbad , ' said he to me , ` I stand in need of you ; you must do me the service to carry my answer and present to the King of Serendib . It is but just I should return his civility . ' This command of the caliph to me was like a clap of thunder . ` Commander of the Faithful , ' replied I , ` I am ready to do whatever your majesty shall think fit to command me ; but I beseech you most humbly to consider what I have undergone . I have also made a vow never to go out of Bagdad . ' Here I took occasion to give him a large and particular account of all my adventures , which he had the patience to hear out . As soon as I had finished , ` I confess , ' said he , ` that the things you tell me are very extraordinary , yet you must for my sake undertake this voyage which I propose to you . You have nothing to do but to go to the Isle of Serendib , and deliver the commission which I give you . After that you are at liberty to return . But you must go ; for you know it would be indecent , and not suitable to my dignity , to be indebted to the king of that island . ' Perceiving that the caliph insisted upon it , I submitted , and told him that I was willing to obey . He was very well pleased at it , and ordered me a thousand sequins for the expense of my journey . I prepared for my departure in a few days , and as soon as the caliph 's letter and present were delivered to me , I went to Balsora , where I embarked , and had a very happy voyage . I arrived at the Isle of Serendib , where I acquainted the king 's ministers with my commission , and prayed them to get me speedy audience . They did so , and I was conducted to the palace in an honorable manner , where I saluted the king by prostration , according to custom . That prince knew me immediately , and testified very great joy to see me . ` O Sinbad , ' said he , ` you are welcome ; I swear to you I have many times thought of you since you went hence ; I bless the day upon which we see one another once more . ' I made my compliment to him , and after having thanked him for his kindness to me , I delivered the caliph 's letter and present , which he received with all imaginable satisfaction . The caliph 's present was a complete set of cloth of gold , valued at one thousand sequins ; fifty robes of rich stuff , a hundred others of white cloth , the finest of Cairo , Suez , Cusa , and Alexandria ; a royal crimson bed , and a second of another fashion ; a vessel of agate broader than deep , an inch thick , and half a foot wide , the bottom of which represented in bas-relief a man with one knee on the ground , who held a bow and an arrow , ready to let fly at a lion . He sent him also a rich table , which , according to tradition , belonged to the great Solomon . The caliph 's letter was as follows : ` Greeting in the name of the Sovereign Guide of the Right Way , to the potent and happy Sultan , from Abdallah Haroun Alraschid , whom God hath set in the place of honor , after his ancestors of happy memory : ` We received your letter with joy , and send you this from the council of our port , the garden of superior wits . We hope , when you look upon it , you will find our good intention , and be pleased with it . Farewell . ' The King of Serendib was highly pleased that the caliph returned his friendship . A little time after this audience , I solicited leave to depart , and had much difficulty to obtain it . I obtained it , however , at last , and the king , when he dismissed me , made me a very considerable present . I embarked immediately to return to Bagdad , but had not the good fortune to arrive there as I hoped . God ordered it otherwise . Three or four days after my departure , we were attacked by pirates , who easily seized upon our ship . Some of the crew offered resistance , which cost them their lives . But as for me and the rest , who were not so imprudent , the pirates saved us on purpose to make slaves of us . We were all stripped , and instead of our own clothes they gave us sorry rags , and carried us into a remote island , where they sold us . I fell into the hands of a rich merchant , who , as soon as he bought me , carried me to his house , treated me well , and clad me handsomely for a slave . Some days after , not knowing who I was , he asked me if I understood any trade . I answered that I was no mechanic , but a merchant , and that the pirates who sold me had robbed me of all I had . ` But tell me , ' replied he , ` can you shoot with a bow ? ' I answered that the bow was one of my exercises in my youth , and I had not yet forgotten it . Then he gave me a bow and arrows , and , taking me behind him upon an elephant , carried me to a vast forest some leagues from the town . We went a great way into the forest , and where he thought fit to stop he bade me alight ; then showing me a great tree , ` Climb up that tree , ' said he , ` and shoot at the elephants as you see them pass by , for there is a prodigious number of them in this forest , and , if any of them fall , come and give me notice of it . ' Having spoken thus , he left me victuals , and returned to the town , and I continued upon the tree all night . I saw no elephant during that time , but next morning , as soon as the sun was up , I saw a great number : I shot several arrows among them , and at last one of the elephants fell ; the rest retired immediately , and left me at liberty to go and acquaint my patron with my booty . When I had told him the news , he gave me a good meal , commended my dexterity , and caressed me highly . We afterwards went together to the forest , where we dug a hole for the elephant ; my patron intending to return when it was rotten , and to take the teeth , etc. , to trade with . I continued this game for two months , and killed an elephant every day , getting sometimes upon one tree , and sometimes upon another . One morning , as I looked for the elephants , I perceived with an extreme amazement that , instead of passing by me across the forest as usual , they stopped , and came to me with a horrible noise , in such a number that the earth was covered with them , and shook under them . They encompassed the tree where I was with their trunks extended and their eyes all fixed upon me . At this frightful spectacle I remained immoveable , and was so much frightened that my bow and arrows fell out of my hand . My fears were not in vain ; for after the elephants had stared upon me for some time , one of the largest of them put his trunk round the root of the tree , and pulled so strong that he plucked it up and threw it on the ground ; I fell with the tree , and the elephant taking me up with his trunk , laid me on his back , where I sat more like one dead than alive , with my quiver on my shoulder : then he put himself at the head of the rest , who followed him in troops , and carried me to a place where he laid me down on the ground , and retired with all his companions . Conceive , if you can , the condition I was in : I thought myself to be in a dream ; at last , after having lain some time , and seeing the elephants gone , I got up , and found I was upon a long and broad hill , covered all over with the bones and teeth of elephants . I confess to you that this furnished me with abundance of reflections . I admired the instinct of those animals ; I doubted not but that this was their burying place , and that they carried me thither on purpose to tell me that I should forbear to persecute them , since I did it only for their teeth . I did not stay on the hill , but turned towards the city , and , after having traveled a day and a night , I came to my patron ; I met no elephant on my way , which made me think they had retired farther into the forest , to leave me at liberty to come back to the hill without any hindrance . As soon as my patron saw me : ` Ah , poor Sinbad , ' said he , I was in great trouble to know what had become of you . I have been at the forest , where I found a tree newly pulled up , and a bow and arrows on the ground , and after having sought for you in vain I despaired of ever seeing you more . Pray tell me what befell you , and by what good hap you are still alive . ' I satisfied his curiosity , and going both of us next morning to the hill , he found to his great joy that what I had told him was true . We loaded the elephant upon which we came with as many teeth as he could carry ; and when we had returned , ` Brother , ' said my patron -- ` for I will treat you no more as my slave -- after having made such a discovery as will enrich me , God bless you with all happiness and prosperity . I declare before Him that I give you your liberty . I concealed from you what I am now going to tell you . ` The elephants of our forest have every year killed a great many slaves , whom we sent to seek ivory . Notwithstanding all the cautions we could give them , those crafty animals killed them one time or other . God has delivered you from their fury , and has bestowed that favor upon you only . It is a sign that He loves you , and has use for your service in the world . You have procured me incredible gain . We could not have ivory formerly but by exposing the lives of our slaves , and now our whole city is enriched by your means . Do not think I pretend to have rewarded you by giving you your liberty ; I will also give you considerable riches . I could engage all our city to contribute towards making your fortune , but I will have the glory of doing it myself . ' To this obliging discourse I replied , ` Patron , God preserve you . Your giving me my liberty is enough to discharge what you owe me , and I desire no other reward for the service I had the good fortune to do to you and your city , than leave to return to my own country . ' ` Very well , ' said he , ` the monsoon will in a little time bring ships for ivory . I will send you home then , and give you wherewith to pay your expenses . ' I thanked him again for my liberty , and his good intentions towards me . I stayed with him until the monsoon ; and during that time we made so many journeys to the hill that we filled all our warehouses with ivory . The other merchants who traded in it did the same thing , for it could not be long concealed from them . The ships arrived at last , and my patron himself having made choice of the ship wherein I was to embark , he loaded half of it with ivory on my account , laid in provisions in abundance for my passage , and obliged me besides to accept as a present , curiosities of the country of great value . After I had returned him a thousand thanks for all his favors , I went on board . We set sail , and as the adventure which procured me this liberty was very extraordinary , I had it continually in my thoughts . We stopped at some islands to take in fresh provisions . Our vessel being come to a port on the main land in the Indies , we touched there , and not being willing to venture by sea to Balsora , I landed my proportion of the ivory , resolving to proceed on my journey by land . I made vast sums by my ivory , I bought several rarities , which I intended for presents , and when my equipage was ready , I set out in the company of a large caravan of merchants . I was a long time on the way , and suffered very much , but endured all with patience , when I considered that I had nothing to fear from the seas , from pirates , from serpents , nor from the other perils I had undergone . All these fatigues ended at last , and I came safe to Bagdad . I went immediately to wait upon the caliph , and gave him an account of my embassy . That prince told me he had been uneasy , by reason that I was so long in returning , but that he always hoped God would preserve me . When I told him the adventure of the elephants , he seemed to be much surprised at it , and would never have given any credit to it had he not known my sincerity . He reckoned this story , and the other narratives I had given him , to be so curious that he ordered one of his secretaries to write them in characters of gold , and lay them up in his treasury . I retired very well satisfied with the honors I received and the presents which he gave me ; and after that I gave myself up wholly to my , family , kindred and friends .