THE BELL-DEEP . H. C. Andersen `` Ding-dong ! ding-dong ! '' It sounds up from the `` bell-deep , '' in the Odense-Au . Every child in the old town of Odense , on the island of Fuenen , knows the Au , which washes the gardens round about the town , and flows on under the wooden bridges from the dam to the water-mill . In the Au grow the yellow water-lilies and brown feathery reeds ; the dark velvety flag grows there , high and thick ; old , decayed willows , slanting and tottering , hang far out over the stream beside the monks ' meadow and by the bleaching-ground ; but opposite there are gardens upon gardens , each different from the rest , some with pretty flowers and bowers like little dolls ' pleasure-grounds , often displaying only cabbage and other kitchen plants ; and here and there the gardens can not be seen at all , for the great elder trees that spread themselves out by the bank , and hang far out over the streaming waters , which are deeper here and there than an oar can fathom . Opposite the old nunnery is the deepest place , which is called the `` bell-deep , '' and there dwells the old water spirit , the `` Au-mann . '' This spirit sleeps through the day while the sun shines down upon the water ; but in starry and moonlit nights he shows himself . He is very old : grandmother says that she has heard her own grandmother tell of him ; he is said to lead a solitary life , and to have nobody with whom he can converse save the great old church bell . Once the bell hung in the church tower ; but now there is no trace left of the tower or of the church , which was called St. Alban 's . `` Ding-dong ! ding-dong ! '' sounded the bell , when the tower still stood there ; and one evening , while the sun was setting , and the bell was swinging away bravely , it broke loose and came flying down through the air , the brilliant metal shining in the ruddy beam . `` Ding-dong ! ding-dong ! Now I 'll retire to rest ! '' sang the bell , and flew down into the Odense-Au where it is deepest ; and that is why the place is called the `` bell-deep . '' But the bell got neither rest nor sleep . Down in the Au-mann 's haunt it sounds and rings , so that the tones sometimes pierce upward through the waters ; and many people maintain that its strains forebode the death of some one ; but that is not true , for then the bell is only talking with the Au-mann , who is now no longer alone . And what is the bell telling ? It is old , very old , as we have already observed ; it was there long before grandmother 's grandmother was born ; and yet it is but a child in comparison with the Au-mann , who is an old quiet personage , an oddity , with his hose of eel-skin , and his scaly jacket with the yellow lilies for buttons , and a wreath of reed in his hair and seaweed in his beard ; but he looks very pretty for all that . -LRB-B- Illustration : THE AU-MANN LISTENING TO THE BELL . aaaaa -RRB-B- aaa What the bell tells ? To repeat it all would require years and days ; for year by year it is telling the old stories , sometimes short ones , sometimes long ones , according to its whim ; it tells of old times , of the dark hard times , thus : `` In the church of St. Alban , the monk mounted up into the tower . He was young and handsome , but thoughtful exceedingly . He looked through the loophole out upon the Odense-Au , when the bed of the water was yet broad , and the monks ' meadow was still a lake ; he looked out over it , and over the rampart , and over the nuns ' hill opposite , where the convent lay , and the light gleamed forth from the nun 's cell ; he had known the nun right well , and he thought of her , and his heart beat quicker as he thought . Ding-dong ! ding-dong ! '' Yes , this was the story the bell told . `` Into the tower came also the dapper man-servant of the bishop ; and when I , the bell , who am made of metal , rang hard and loud , and swung to and fro , I might have beaten out his brains . He sat down close under me , and played with two little sticks as if they had been a stringed instrument ; and he sang to it . ` Now I may sing it out aloud , though at other times I may not whisper it . I may sing of everything that is kept concealed behind lock and bars . Yonder it is cold and wet . The rats are eating her up alive ! Nobody knows of it ! Nobody hears of it ! Not even now , for the bell is ringing and singing its loud Ding-dong ! ding-dong . ' `` There was a king in those days ; they called him Canute . He bowed himself before bishop and monk ; but when he offended the free peasants with heavy taxes and hard words , they seized their weapons and put him to flight like a wild beast . He sought shelter in the church , and shut gate and door behind him . The violent band surrounded the church ; I heard tell of it . The crows , ravens , and magpies started up in terror at the yelling and shouting that sounded around . They flew into the tower and out again , they looked down upon the throng below , and they also looked into the windows of the church , and screamed out aloud what they saw there . King Canute knelt before the altar in prayer , his brothers Eric and Benedict stood by him as a guard with drawn swords ; but the king 's servant , the treacherous Blake , betrayed his master ; the throng in front of the church knew where they could hit the king , and one of them flung a stone through a pane of glass , and the king lay there dead ! The cries and screams of the savage horde and of the birds sounded through the air , and I joined in it also ; for I sang ` Ding-dong ! ding-dong ! ' `` The church bell hangs high and looks far around , and sees the birds around it , and understands their language ; the wind roars in upon it through windows and loopholes ; and the wind knows everything , for he gets it from the air , which encircles all things , and the church bell understands his tongue , and rings it out into the world , ` Ding-dong ! ding-dong ! ' `` But it was too much for me to hear and to know ; I was not able any longer to ring it out . I became so tired , so heavy , that the beam broke , and I flew out into the gleaming Au where the water is deepest , and where the Au-mann lives , solitary and alone ; and year by year I tell him what I have heard and what I know . Ding-dong ! ding-dong ! '' Thus it sounds complainingly out of the bell-deep in the Odense-Au : that is what grandmother told us . But the schoolmaster says that there was not any bell that rung down there , for that it could not do so ; and that no Au-mann dwelt yonder , for there was no Au-mann at all ! And when all the other church bells are sounding sweetly , he says that it is not really the bells that are sounding , but that it is the air itself which sends forth the notes ; and grandmother said to us that the bell itself said it was the air who told it him , consequently they are agreed on that point , and this much is sure . `` Be cautious , cautious , and take good heed to thyself , '' they both say . The air knows everything . It is around us , it is in us , it talks of our thoughts and of our deeds , and it speaks longer of them than does the bell down in the depths of the Odense-Au where the Au-mann dwells ; it rings it out into the vault of heaven , far , far out , for ever and ever , till the heaven bells sound `` Ding-dong ! ding-dong ! ''