THE TALE OF MRS. TIGGY-WINKLE Beatrix Potter ONCE upon a time there was a little girl called Lucie , who lived at a farm called Little-town . She was a good little girl -- only she was always losing her pocket - handkerchiefs ! One day little Lucie came into the farm-yard crying -- oh , she did cry so ! `` I 've lost my pocket-handkin ! Three handkins and a pinny ! Have YOU seen them , Tabby Kitten ? '' THE Kitten went on washing her white paws ; so Lucie asked a speckled hen -- `` Sally Henny-penny , has YOU found three pocket-handkins ? '' But the speckled hen ran into a barn , clucking -- `` I go barefoot , barefoot , barefoot ! '' AND then Lucie asked Cock Robin sitting on a twig . Cock Robin looked sideways at Lucie with his bright black eye , and he flew over a stile and away . Lucie climbed upon the stile and looked up at the hill behind Little-town -- a hill that goes up -- up -- into the clouds as though it had no top ! And a great way up the hillside she thought she saw some white things spread upon the grass . LUCIE scrambled up the hill as fast as her stout legs would carry her ; she ran along a steep path-way -- up and up -- until Little-town was right away down below -- she could have dropped a pebble down the chimney ! PRESENTLY she came to a spring , bubbling out from the hill-side . Some one had stood a tin can upon a stone to catch the water -- but the water was already running over , for the can was no bigger than an egg-cup ! And where the sand upon the path was wet -- there were foot-marks of a VERY small person . Lucie ran on , and on . THE path ended under a big rock . The grass was short and green , and there were clothes-props cut from bracken stems , with lines of plaited rushes , and a heap of tiny clothes pins -- but no pocket-handkerchiefs ! But there was something else -- a door ! straight into the hill ; and inside it some one was singing -- `` Lily-white and clean , oh ! With little frills between , oh ! Smooth and hot -- red rusty spot Never here be seen , oh ! '' LUCIE , knocked -- once -- twice , and interrupted the song . A little frightened voice called out `` Who 's that ? '' Lucie opened the door : and what do you think there was inside the hill ? -- a nice clean kitchen with a flagged floor and wooden beams -- just like any other farm kitchen . Only the ceiling was so low that Lucie 's head nearly touched it ; and the pots and pans were small , and so was everything there . THERE was a nice hot singey smell ; and at the table , with an iron in her hand stood a very stout short person staring anxiously at Lucie . Her print gown was tucked up , and she was wearing a large apron over her striped petticoat . Her little black nose went sniffle , sniffle , snuffle , and her eyes went twinkle , twinkle ; and underneath her cap -- where Lucie had yellow curls -- that little person had PRICKLES ! `` WHO are you ? '' said Lucie . `` Have you seen my pocket-handkins ? '' The little person made a bob-curtsey -- `` Oh , yes , if you please 'm ; my name is Mrs. Tiggy-winkle ; oh , yes if you please 'm , I 'm an excellent clear - starcher ! '' And she took something out of a clothes - basket , and spread it on the ironing-blanket . `` WHAT 'S that thing ? '' said Lucie -- `` that 's not my pocket-handkin ? '' `` Oh no , if you please 'm ; that 's a little scarlet waist-coat belonging to Cock Robin ! '' And she ironed it and folded it , and put it on one side . THEN she took something else off a clothes-horse -- `` That is n't my pinny ? '' said Lucie . `` Oh no , if you please 'm ; that 's a damask table-cloth belonging to Jenny Wren ; look how it 's stained with currant wine ! It 's very bad to wash ! '' said Mrs. Tiggy - winkle .