THE THIRD VOYAGE OF SINBAD THE SAILOR . Arabian Writer The pleasures of the life which I then led soon made me forget the risks I had run in my two former voyages ; but , being then in the flower of my age I grew weary of living without business ; and hardening myself against the thought of any danger I might incur , I went from Bagdad , with the richest commodities of the country , to Balsora : there I embarked again with the merchants . We made a long voyage , and touched at several ports , where we drove a considerable trade . One day , being out in the main ocean , we were attacked by a horrible tempest , which made us lose our course . The tempest continued several days , and brought us before the port of an island , where the captain was very unwilling to enter ; but we were obliged to cast anchor there . When we had furled our sails the captain told us that this and some other neighbouring islands were inhabited by hairy savages , who would speedily attack us ; and though they were but dwarfs , yet our misfortune was that we must make no resistance , for they were more in number than the locusts ; and if we happened to kill one of them they would all fall upon us and destroy us . This discourse of the captain put the whole company into a great consternation ; and we found very soon , to our cost , that what he had told us was but too true ; an innumerable multitude of frightful savages , covered all over with red hair , and about two feet high , came swimming towards us , and in a little time encompassed our ship . They spoke to us as they came near , but we understood not their language ; they climbed up the sides of the ship with an agility that surprised us . We beheld all this with mortal fear , without daring to offer to defend ourselves , or to speak one word to divert them from their mischievous design . In short , they took down our sails , cut the cable , and , hauling to the shore , made us all get out , and afterwards carried the ship into another island , from whence they had come . All travellers carefully avoided that island where they left us , it being very dangerous to stay there , for a reason you shall hear anon ; but we were forced to bear our affliction with patience . We went forward into the island , where we found some fruits and herbs to prolong our lives as long as we could ; but we expected nothing but death . As we went on we perceived at a distance a great pile of building , and made towards it . We found it to be a palace , well built , and very lofty , with a gate of ebony with double doors , which we thrust open . We entered the court , where we saw before us a vast apartment with a porch , having on one side a heap of men 's bones , and on the other a vast number of roasting spits . We trembled at this spectacle , and , being weary with traveling , our legs failed under us : we fell to the ground , seized with deadly fear , and lay a long time motionless . The sun had set , and whilst we were in the lamentable condition just mentioned , the gate of the apartment opened with a great noise , and there came out the horrible figure of a black man , as high as a tall palm tree . He had but one eye , and that in the middle of his forehead , where it looked as red as a burning coal . His fore-teeth were very long and sharp , and stood out of his mouth , which was as deep as that of a horse ; his upper lip hung down upon his breast ; his ears resembled those of an elephant , and covered his shoulders ; and his nails were as long and crooked as the talons of the greatest birds . At the sight of so frightful a giant we lost all our senses , and lay like men dead . At last we came to ourselves , and saw him sitting in the porch , looking at us . When he had considered us well , he advanced towards us , and laying his hand upon me , he took me up by the nape of my neck , and turned me round as a butcher would do a sheep 's head . After having viewed me well , and perceiving me to be so lean that I had nothing but skin and bone , he let me go . He took up all the rest , one by one , and viewed them in the same manner ; and the captain being the fattest , he held him with one hand , as I might a sparrow , and thrusting a spit through him , kindled a great fire , roasted , and ate him in his apartment for his supper . This being done , he returned to his porch , where he lay and fell asleep , snoring louder than thunder . He slept thus till morning . For our parts , it was not possible for us to enjoy any rest ; so that we passed the night in the most cruel fear that can be imagined . Day being come , the giant awoke , got up , went out , and left us in the palace . When we thought him at a distance , we broke the melancholy silence we had kept all night , and every one grieving more than another , we made the palace resound with our complaints and groans . Though there were a great many of us , and we had but one enemy , we had not at first the presence of mind to think of delivering ourselves from him by his death . We thought of several other things , but determined nothing ; so that , submitting to what it should please God to order concerning us , we spent the day in running about the island for fruit and herbs to sustain our lives . When evening came , we sought for a place to lie down in , but found none ; so that we were forced , whether we would or not , to return to the palace . The giant failed not to come back , and supped once more upon one of our companions ; after which he slept , and snored till day , and then went out and left us as formerly . Our condition was so very terrible that several of my comrades designed to throw themselves into the sea , rather than die so strange a death . Those who were of this mind argued with the rest to follow their example ; upon which one of the company answered that we were forbidden to destroy ourselves ; but even if it were lawful , it was more reasonable to think of a way to rid ourselves of the barbarous tyrant who designed so cruel a death for us . Having thought of a project for that end , I communicated the same to my comrades , who approved it . ` Brethren , ' said I , ` you know there is a great deal of timber floating upon the coast ; if you will be advised by me , let us make several rafts that may carry us , and when they are done , leave them there till we think fit to make use of them . In the meantime we will execute the design to deliver ourselves from the giant , and if it succeed , we may stay here with patience till some ship pass by to carry us out of this fatal island ; but if it happen to miscarry , we will speedily get to our rafts , and put to sea . I confess , that by exposing ourselves to the fury of the waves , we run a risk of losing our lives ; but if we do , is it not better to be buried in the sea than in the entrails of this monster , who has already devoured two of us ? ' My advice was relished , and we made rafts capable of carrying three persons each . We returned to the palace towards evening , and the giant arrived a little while after . We were forced to see another of our comrades roasted . But at last we revenged ourselves on the brutish giant thus . After he had made an end of his cursed supper , he lay down on his back , and fell asleep . As soon as we heard him snore , according to his custom , nine of the boldest among us , and myself , took each of us a spit , and putting the points of them into the fire till they were burning hot , we thrust them into his eye all at once , and blinded him . The pain occasioned him to make a frightful cry , and to get up and stretch out his hands in order to sacrifice some of us to his rage , but we ran to places where he could not find us ; and after having sought for us in vain , he groped for the gate , and went out , howling dreadfully . We went out of the palace after the giant , and came to the shore , where we had left our rafts , and put them immediately into the sea . We waited till day in order to get upon them , in case the giant came towards us with any guide of his own species ; but we hoped that if he did not appear by sunrise , and gave over his howling , which we still heard , he would die ; and if that happened to be the case , we resolved to stay in the island , and not to risk our lives upon the rafts . But day had scarcely appeared when we perceived our cruel enemy , accompanied by two others almost of the same size leading him , and a great number more coming before him with a very quick pace . When we saw this , we made no delay , but got immediately upon our rafts , and rowed off from the shore . The giants , who perceived this , took up great stones , and running to the shore entered the water up to their waists , and threw so exactly that they sank all the rafts but that I was upon , and all my companions , except the two with me , were drowned . We rowed with all our might , and got out of the reach of the giants ; but when we got out to sea , we were exposed to the mercy of the waves and winds , and tossed about , sometimes on one side , and sometimes on another , and spent that night and the following day under a cruel uncertainty as to our fate ; but next morning we had the good luck to be thrown upon an island , where we landed with much joy . We found excellent fruit there , that gave us great relief , so that we pretty well recovered our strength . In the evening we fell asleep on the bank of the sea , but were awaked by the noise of a serpent as long as a palm tree , whose scales made a rustling as he crept along . He swallowed up one of my comrades , notwithstanding his loud cries and the efforts he made to rid himself from the serpent , which shook him several times against the ground , and crushed him ; and we could hear him gnaw and tear the poor wretch 's bones , when we had fled a great distance from him . Next day we saw the serpent again , to our great terror , and I cried out , ` O heaven , to what dangers are we exposed ! We rejoiced yesterday at having escaped from the cruelty of a giant and the rage of the waves , and now are we fallen into another danger altogether as terrible . ' As we walked about we saw a large tall tree , upon which we designed to pass the following night , for our security ; and having satisfied our hunger with fruit , we mounted it accordingly . A little while after , the serpent came hissing to the root of the tree , raised itself up against the trunk of it , and meeting with my comrade , who sat lower than I , swallowed him at once , and went off . I staid upon the tree till it was day , and then came down , more like a dead man than one alive , expecting the same fate as my two companions . This filled me with horror , so that I was going to throw myself into the sea ; but nature prompting us to a desire to live as long as we can , I withstood this temptation to despair , and submitted myself to the will of God , who disposes of our lives at His pleasure . In the meantime I gathered together a great quantity of small wood , brambles , and dry thorns , and making them up into faggots made a great circle with them round the tree , and also tied some of them to the branches over my head . Having done thus , when the evening came I shut myself up within this circle , with this melancholy piece of satisfaction , that I had neglected nothing which could preserve me from the cruel destiny with which I was threatened . The serpent failed not to come at the usual hour , and went round the tree , seeking for an opportunity to devour me , but was prevented by the rampart I had made , so that he lay till day , like a cat watching in vain for a mouse that has retreated to a place of safety . When day appeared he retired , but I dared not to leave my fort until the sun arose . I was fatigued with the toil he had put me to , and suffered so much from his poisonous breath that , death seeming preferable to me than the horror of such a condition . I came down from the tree , and not thinking on the resignation I had made to the will of God the preceding day , I ran towards the sea , with a design to throw myself into it headlong . God took compassion on my desperate state , for just as I was going to throw myself into the sea , I perceived a ship at a considerable distance . I called as loud as I could , and taking the linen from my turban , displayed it that they might observe me . This had the desired effect ; all the crew perceived me , and the captain sent his boat for me . As soon as I came aboard , the merchants and seamen flocked about me to know how I came to that desert island ; and after I had told them of all that befell me , the oldest among them said they had several times heard of the giants that dwelt in that island , that they were cannibals and ate men raw as well as roasted ; and as to the serpents , he added , there were abundance in the isle that hid themselves by day and came abroad by night . After having testified their joy at my escaping so many dangers , they brought me the best of what they had to eat ; and the captain , seeing that I was all in rags , was so generous as to give me one of his own suits . We were at sea for some time , touched at several islands , and at last landed at that of Salabat , where there grows sanders , a wood of great use in physic . We entered the port , and came to anchor . The merchants began to unload their goods , in order to sell or exchange them . In the meantime the captain came to me , and said , ` Brother , I have here a parcel of goods that belonged to a merchant who sailed some time on board this ship ; and he being dead , I intend to dispose of them for the benefit of his heirs , when I know them . ' The bales he spoke of lay on the deck , and showing them to me , he said , ` There are the goods ; I hope you will take care to sell them , and you shall have a commission . ' I thanked him that he gave me an opportunity to employ myself , because I hated to be idle . The clerk of the ship took an account of all the bales , with the names of the merchants to whom they belonged ; and when he asked the captain in whose name he should enter those he gave me the charge of , ` Enter them , ' said the captain , ` in the name of Sinbad the sailor . ' I could not hear myself named without some emotion , and looking steadfastly on the captain , I knew him to be the person who , in my second voyage , had left me in the island where I fell asleep by a brook , and set sail without me , and without sending to look for me . But I could not remember him at first , he was so much altered since I saw him . And as for him , who believed me to be dead , I could not wonder at his not knowing me . ` But , captain , ' said I , ` was the merchant 's name to whom those goods belonged Sinbad ? ' ` Yes , ' replied he , ` that was his name ; he came from Bagdad , and embarked on board my ship at Balsora . One day , when we landed at an island to take in water and other refreshments , I know not by what mistake I set sail without observing that he did not re-embark with us ; neither I nor the merchants perceived it till four hours after . We had the wind in our stern and so fresh a gale that it was not then possible for us to tack about for him . ' ` You believe him then to be dead ? ' said I. ` Certainly , ' answered he . ` No , captain , ' said I ; ` look upon me , and you may know that I am Sinbad , whom you left in that desert island . I fell asleep by a brook , and when I awoke I found all the company gone . ' The captain , having considered me attentively , knew me at last embraced me , and said , ` God be praised that fortune has supplied my defect . There are your goods , which I always took care to preserve and to make the best of at every port where I touched . I restore them to you , with the profit I have made on them . ' I took them from him , and at the same time acknowledged how much I owed to him . From the Isle of Salabat we went to another , where I furnished myself with cloves , cinnamon , and other spices . As we sailed from that island we saw a tortoise that was twenty cubits in length and breadth . We observed also a fish which looked like a cow , and gave milk , and its skin is so hard that they usually make bucklers of it . I saw another which had the shape and color of a camel . In short , after a long voyage , I arrived at Balsora , and from thence returned to this city of Bagdad , with so much riches that I knew not what I had . I gave a great deal to the poor , and bought another great estate in addition to what I had already .