UNDER THE WILLOW TREE . H. C. Andersen The region round the little town of Kjoege is very bleak and bare . The town certainly lies by the sea shore , which is always beautiful , but just there it might be more beautiful than it is : all around are flat fields , and it is a long way to the forest . But when one is very much at home in a place , one always finds something beautiful , and something that one longs for in the most charming spot in the world that is strange to us . We confess that , by the utmost boundary of the little town , where some humble gardens skirt the streamlet that falls into the sea , it must be very pretty in summer ; and this was the opinion of the two children from neighbouring houses , who were playing there , and forcing their way through the gooseberry bushes , to get to one another . In one of the gardens stood an elder tree , and in the other an old willow , and under the latter the children were especially very fond of playing ; they were allowed to play there , though , indeed , the tree stood close beside the stream , and they might easily have fallen into the water . But the eye of God watches over the little ones ; if it did not , they would be badly off . And , moreover , they were very careful with respect to the water ; in fact , the boy was so much afraid of it , that they could not lure him into the sea in summer , when the other children were splashing about in the waves . Accordingly , he was famously jeered and mocked at , and had to bear the jeering and mockery as best he could . But once Joanna , the neighbour 's little girl , dreamed she was sailing in a boat , and Knud waded out to join her till the water rose , first to his neck , and afterwards closed over his head , so that he disappeared altogether . From the time when little Knud heard of this dream , he would no longer bear the teasing of the other boys . He might go into the water now , he said , for Joanna had dreamed it . He certainly never carried the idea into practice , but the dream was his great guide for all that . Their parents , who were poor people , often took tea together , and Knud and Joanna played in the gardens and on the high-road , where a row of willows had been planted beside the skirting ditch ; these trees , with their polled tops , certainly did not look beautiful , but they were not put there for ornament , but for use . The old willow tree in the garden was much handsomer , and therefore the children were fond of sitting under it . In the town itself there was a great market-place , and at the time of the fair this place was covered with whole streets of tents and booths , containing silk ribbons , boots , and everything that a person could wish for . There was great crowding , and generally the weather was rainy ; but it did not destroy the fragrance of the honey-cakes and the gingerbread , of which there was a booth quite full ; and the best of it was , that the man who kept this booth came every year to lodge during the fair-time in the dwelling of little Knud 's father . Consequently there came a present of a bit of gingerbread every now and then , and of course Joanna received her share of the gift . But , perhaps the most charming thing of all was that the gingerbread dealer knew all sorts of tales , and could even relate histories about his own gingerbread cakes ; and one evening , in particular , he told a story about them which made such a deep impression on the children that they never forgot it ; and for that reason it is perhaps advisable that we should hear it too , more especially as the story is not long . `` On the shop-board , '' he said , `` lay two gingerbread cakes , one in the shape of a man with a hat , the other of a maiden without a bonnet ; both their faces were on the side that was uppermost , for they were to be looked at on that side , and not on the other ; and , indeed , most people have a favourable side from which they should be viewed . On the left side the man wore a bitter almond -- that was his heart ; but the maiden , on the other hand , was honey-cake all over . They were placed as samples on the shop-board , and remaining there a long time , at last they fell in love with one another , but neither told the other , as they should have done if they had expected anything to come of it . '' ` He is a man , and therefore he must speak first , ' she thought ; but she felt quite contented , for she knew her love was returned . `` His thoughts were far more extravagant , as is always the case with a man . He dreamed that he was a real street boy , that he had four pennies of his own , and that he purchased the maiden , and ate her up . So they lay on the shop-board for weeks and weeks , and grew dry and hard , but the thoughts of the maiden became ever more gentle and maidenly . '' ` It is enough for me that I have lived on the same table with him , ' she said , and crack ! she broke in two . '' ` If she had only known of my love , she would have kept together a little longer , ' he thought . `` And that is the story , and here they are , both of them , '' said the baker in conclusion . `` They are remarkable for their curious history , and for their silent love , which never came to anything . And there they are for you ! '' and , so saying , he gave Joanna the man who was yet entire , and Knud got the broken maiden ; but the children had been so much impressed by the story that they could not summon courage to eat the lovers up . On the following day they went out with them to the churchyard , and sat down by the church wall , which is covered , winter and summer , with the most luxuriant ivy as with a rich carpet . Here they stood the two cake figures up in the sunshine among the green leaves , and told the story to a group of other children ; they told them of the silent love which led to nothing . It was called _ love _ because the story was so lovely , on that they all agreed . But when they turned to look again at the gingerbread pair , a big boy , out of mischief , had eaten up the broken maiden . The children cried about this , and afterwards -- probably that the poor lover might not be left in the world lonely and desolate -- they ate him up too ; but they never forgot the story . The children were always together by the elder tree and under the willow , and the little girl sang the most beautiful songs with a voice that was clear as a bell . Knud , on the other hand , had not a note of music in him , but he knew the words of the songs , and that , at least , was something . The people of Kjoege , even to the rich wife of the fancy-shop keeper , stood still and listened when Joanna sang . `` She has a very sweet voice , that little girl , '' they said . Those were glorious days , but they could not last for ever . The neighbors were neighbors no longer . The little maiden 's mother was dead , and the father intended to marry again , in the capital , where he had been promised a living as a messenger , which was to be a very lucrative office . And the neighbors separated regretfully , the children weeping heartily , but the parents promised that they should at least write to one another once a year . And Knud was bound apprentice to a shoemaker , for the big boy could not be allowed to run wild any longer ; and moreover he was confirmed . Ah , how gladly on that day of celebration would he have been in Copenhagen with little Joanna ! but he remained in Kjoege , and had never yet been to Copenhagen , though the little town is only five Danish miles distant from the capital ; but far across the bay , when the sky was clear , Knud had seen the towers in the distance , and on the day of his confirmation he could distinctly see the golden cross on the principal church glittering in the sun . Ah , how often his thoughts were with Joanna ! Did she think of him ? Yes . Towards Christmas there came a letter from her father to the parents of Knud , to say that they were getting on very well in Copenhagen , and especially might Joanna look forward to a brilliant future on the strength of her fine voice . She had been engaged in the theater in which people sing , and was already earning some money , out of which she sent her dear neighbors of Kjoege a dollar for the merry Christmas Eve . They were to drink her health , she had herself added in a postscript , and in the same postscript there stood further , `` A kind greeting to Knud . '' The whole family wept : and yet all this was very pleasant ; those were joyful tears that they shed . Knud 's thoughts had been occupied every day with Joanna ; and now he knew that she also thought of him : and the nearer the time came when his apprenticeship would be over , the more clearly did it appear to him that he was very fond of Joanna , and that she must be his wife ; and when he thought of this , a smile came upon his lips , and he drew the thread twice as fast as before , and pressed his foot hard against the knee-strap . He ran the awl far into his finger , but he did not care for that . He determined not to play the dumb lover , as the two gingerbread cakes had done : the story should teach him a lesson . And now he was a journeyman , and his knapsack was packed ready for his journey : at length , for the first time in his life , he was to go to Copenhagen , where a master was already waiting for him . How glad Joanna would be ! She was now seventeen years old , and he nineteen . Already in Kjoege he had wanted to buy a gold ring for her ; but he recollected that such things were to be had far better in Copenhagen . And now he took leave of his parents , and on a rainy day , late in the autumn , went forth on foot out of the town of his birth . The leaves were falling down from the trees , and he arrived at his new master 's in the metropolis wet to the skin . Next Sunday he was to pay a visit to Joanna 's father . The new journeyman 's clothes were brought forth , and the new hat from Kjoege was put on , which became Knud very well , for till this time he had only worn a cap . And he found the house he sought , and mounted flight after flight of stairs until he became almost giddy . It was terrible to him to see how people lived piled up one over the other in the dreadful city . Everything in the room had a prosperous look , and Joanna 's father received him very kindly . To the new wife he was a stranger , but she shook hands with him , and gave him some coffee . `` Joanna will be glad to see you , '' said the father : `` you have grown quite a nice young man . You shall see her presently . She is a girl who rejoices my heart , and , please God , she will rejoice it yet more . She has her own room now , and pays us rent for it . '' And the father knocked quite politely at the door , as if he were a visitor , and then they went in . But how pretty everything was in that room ! such an apartment was certainly not to be found in all Kjoege : the queen herself could not be more charmingly lodged . There were carpets , there were window curtains quite down to the floor , and around were flowers and pictures , and a mirror into which there was almost danger that a visitor might step , for it was as large as a door ; and there was even a velvet chair . Knud saw all this at a glance : and yet he saw nothing but Joanna . She was a grown maiden , quite different from what Knud had fancied her , and much more beautiful . In all Kjoege there was not a girl like her . How graceful she was , and with what an odd unfamiliar glance she looked at Knud ! But that was only for a moment , and then she rushed towards him as if she would have kissed him . She did not really do so , but she came very near it . Yes , she was certainly rejoiced at the arrival of the friend of her youth ! The tears were actually in her eyes ; and she had much to say , and many questions to put concerning all , from Knud 's parents down to the elder tree and the willow , which she called Elder-mother and Willow-father , as if they had been human beings ; and indeed they might pass as such , just as well as the gingerbread cakes ; and of these she spoke too , and of their silent love , and how they had lain upon the shop-board and split in two -- and then she laughed very heartily ; but the blood mounted into Knud 's cheeks , and his heart beat thick and fast . No , she had not grown proud at all . And it was through her -- he noticed it well -- that her parents invited him to stay the whole evening with them ; and she poured out the tea and gave him a cup with her own hands ; and afterwards she took a book and read aloud to them , and it seemed to Knud that what she read was all about himself and his love , for it matched so well with his thoughts ; and then she sang a simple song , but through her singing it became like a history , and seemed to be the outpouring of her very heart . Yes , certainly she was fond of Knud . The tears coursed down his cheeks -- he could not restrain them , nor could he speak a single word : he seemed to himself as if he were struck dumb ; and yet she pressed his hand , and said , `` You have a good heart , Knud -- remain always as you are now . '' That was an evening of matchless delight to Knud ; to sleep after it was impossible , and accordingly Knud did not sleep . At parting , Joanna 's father had said , `` Now , you wo n't forget us altogether ! Do n't let the whole winter go by without once coming to see us again ; '' and therefore he could very well go again the next Sunday , and resolved to do so . But every evening when working hours were over -- and they worked by candlelight there -- Knud went out through the town : he went into the street in which Joanna lived , and looked up at her window ; it was almost always lit up , and one evening he could see the shadow of her face quite plainly on the curtain -- and that was a grand evening for him . His master 's wife did not like his gallivanting abroad every evening , as she expressed it ; and she shook her head ; but the master only smiled . `` He is only a young fellow , '' he said . But Knud thought to himself : `` On Sunday I shall see her , and I shall tell her how completely she reigns in my heart and soul , and that she must be my little wife . I know I am only a poor journeyman shoemaker , but I shall work and strive -- yes , I shall tell her so . Nothing comes of silent love : I have learned that from the cakes . '' And Sunday came round , and Knud sallied forth ; but , unluckily , they were all invited out for that evening , and were obliged to tell him so . Joanna pressed his hand and said , `` Have you ever been to the theater ? You must go once . I shall sing on Wednesday , and if you have time on that evening , I will send you a ticket ; my father knows where your master lives . '' How kind that was of her ! And on Wednesday at noon he received a sealed paper , with no words written in it ; but the ticket was there , and in the evening Knud went to the theater for the first time in his life . And what did he see ? He saw Joanna , and how charming and how beautiful she looked ! She was certainly married to a stranger , but that was all in the play -- something that was only make-believe , as Knud knew very well . If it had been real , he thought , she would never have had the heart to send him a ticket that he might go and see it . And all the people shouted and applauded , and Knud cried out `` hurrah ! '' Even the king smiled at Joanna , and seemed to delight in her . Ah , how small Knud felt ! but then he loved her so dearly , and thought that she loved him too ; but it was for the man to speak the first word , as the gingerbread maiden in the child 's story had taught him : and there was a great deal for him in that story . So soon as Sunday came , he went again . He felt as if he were going into a church . Joanna was alone , and received him -- it could not have happened more fortunately . `` It is well that you are come , '' she said . `` I had an idea of sending my father to you , only I felt a presentiment that you would be here this evening ; for I must tell you that I start for France on Friday : I must go there , if I am to become efficient . '' It seemed to Knud as if the whole room were whirling round and round with him . He felt as if his heart would presently burst : no tear rose to his eyes , but still it was easy to see how sorrowful he was . `` You honest , faithful soul ! '' she exclaimed ; and these words of hers loosened Knud 's tongue . He told her how constantly he loved her , and that she must become his wife ; and as he said this , he saw Joanna change color and turn pale . She let his hand fall , and answered , seriously and mournfully , `` Knud , do not make yourself and me unhappy . I shall always be a good sister to you , one in whom you may trust , but I shall never be anything more . '' And she drew her white hand over his hot forehead . `` Heaven gives us strength for much , '' she said , `` if we only endeavor to do our best . '' At that moment the stepmother came into the room ; and Joanna said quickly , `` Knud is quite inconsolable because I am going away . Come , be a man , '' she continued , and laid her hand upon his shoulder ; and it seemed as if they had been talking of the journey , and nothing else . `` You are a child , '' she added ; `` but now you must be good and reasonable , as you used to be under the willow tree , when we were both children . '' But Knud felt as if the whole world had slid out of its course , and his thoughts were like a loose thread fluttering to and fro in the wind . He stayed , though he could not remember if she had asked him to stay ; and she was kind and good , and poured out his tea for him , and sang to him . It had not the old tone , and yet it was wonderfully beautiful , and made his heart feel ready to burst . And then they parted . Knud did not offer her his hand , but she seized it , and said , `` Surely you will shake hands with your sister at parting , old playfellow ! '' And she smiled through the tears that were rolling over her cheeks , and she repeated the word `` brother '' -- and certainly there was good consolation in that -- and thus they parted . She sailed to France , and Knud wandered about the muddy streets of Copenhagen . The other journeymen in the workshop asked him why he went about so gloomily , and told him he should go and amuse himself with them , for he was a young fellow . And they went with him to the dancing-rooms . He saw many handsome girls there , but certainly not one like Joanna ; and here , where he thought to forget her , she stood more vividly than ever before the eyes of his soul . `` Heaven gives us strength for a great deal , if we only try to do our best , '' she had said ; and holy thoughts came into his mind , and he folded his hands . The violins played , and the girls danced round in a circle ; and he was quite startled , for it seemed to him as if he were in a place to which he ought not to have brought Joanna -- for she was there with him , in his heart ; and accordingly he went out . He ran through the streets , and passed by the house where she had dwelt : it was dark there , dark everywhere , and empty , and lonely . The world went on its course , but Knud pursued his lonely way , unheedingly . The winter came , and the streams were frozen . Everything seemed to be preparing for a burial . But when spring returned , and the first steamer was to start , a longing seized him to go away , far , far into the world , but not to France . So he packed his knapsack , and wandered far into the German land , from city to city , without rest or peace ; and it was not till he came to the glorious old city of Nuremberg that he could master his restless spirit ; and in Nuremberg , therefore , he decided to remain . Nuremberg is a wonderful old city , and looks as if it were cut out of an old picture-book . The streets seem to stretch themselves along just as they please . The houses do not like standing in regular ranks . Gables with little towers , arabesques , and pillars , start out over the pathway , and from the strange peaked roofs water-spouts , formed like dragons or great slim dogs , extend far over the street . Here in the market-place stood Knud , with his knapsack on his back . He stood by one of the old fountains that are adorned with splendid bronze figures , scriptural and historical , rising up between the gushing jets of water . A pretty servant-maid was just filling her pails , and she gave Knud a refreshing draught ; and as her hand was full of roses , she gave him one of the flowers , and he accepted it as a good omen . From the neighbouring church the strains of the organ were sounding : they seemed to him as familiar as the tones of the organ at home at Kjoege ; and he went into the great cathedral . The sunlight streamed in through the stained glass windows , between the two lofty slender pillars . His spirit became prayerful , and peace returned to his soul . And he sought and found a good master in Nuremberg , with whom he stayed , and in whose house he learned the German language . The old moat round the town has been converted into a number of little kitchen gardens ; but the high walls are standing yet , with their heavy towers . The ropemaker twists his ropes on a gallery or walk built of wood , inside the town wall , where elder bushes grow out of the clefts and cracks , spreading their green twigs over the little low houses that stand below ; and in one of these dwelt the master with whom Knud worked ; and over the little garret window at which Knud sat the elder waved its branches . Here he lived through a summer and a winter ; but when the spring came again he could bear it no longer . The elder was in blossom , and its fragrance reminded him so of home , that he fancied himself back in the garden at Kjoege ; and therefore Knud went away from his master , and dwelt with another , farther in the town , over whose house no elder bush grew . His workshop was quite close to one of the old stone bridges , by a low water-mill , that rushed and foamed always . Without , rolled the roaring stream , hemmed in by houses , whose old decayed gables looked ready to topple down into the water . No elder grew here -- there was not even a flower-pot with its little green plant ; but just opposite the workshop stood a great old willow tree , that seemed to cling fast to the house , for fear of being carried away by the water , and which stretched forth its branches over the river , just as the willow at Kjoege spread its arms across the streamlet by the gardens there . Yes , he had certainly gone from the `` Elder-mother '' to the `` Willow-father . '' The tree here had something , especially on moonlight evenings , that went straight to his heart -- and that something was not in the moonlight , but in the old tree itself . Nevertheless , he could not remain . Why not ? Ask the willow tree , ask the blooming elder ! And therefore he bade farewell to his master in Nuremberg , and journeyed onward . To no one did he speak of Joanna -- in his secret heart he hid his sorrow ; and he thought of the deep meaning in the old childish story of the two cakes . Now he understood why the man had a bitter almond in his breast -- he himself felt the bitterness of it ; and Joanna , who was always so gentle and kind , was typified by the honey-cake . The strap of his knapsack seemed so tight across his chest that he could scarcely breathe ; he loosened it , but was not relieved . He saw but half the world around him ; the other half he carried about him , and within himself . And thus it stood with him . Not till he came in sight of the high mountains did the world appear freer to him ; and now his thoughts were turned without , and tears came into his eyes . The Alps appeared to him as the folded wings of the earth ; how if they were to unfold themselves , and display their variegated pictures of black woods , foaming waters , clouds , and masses of snow ? At the last day , he thought , the world will lift up its great wings , and mount upwards towards the sky , and burst like a soap-bubble in the glance of the Highest ! `` Ah , '' sighed he , `` that the Last Day were come ! '' Silently he wandered through the land , that seemed to him as an orchard covered with soft turf . From the wooden balconies of the houses the girls who sat busy with their lace-making nodded at him ; the summits of the mountains glowed in the red sun of the evening ; and when he saw the green lakes gleaming among the dark trees , he thought of the coast by the Bay of Kjoege , and there was a longing in his bosom , but it was pain no more . There where the Rhine rolls onward like a great billow , and bursts , and is changed into snow-white , gleaming , cloud-like masses , as if clouds were being created there , with the rainbow fluttering like a loose band above them ; there he thought of the water-mill at Kjoege , with its rushing , foaming water . Gladly would he have remained in the quiet Rhenish town , but here too were too many elder trees and willows , and therefore he journeyed on , over the high , mighty mountains , through shattered walls of rock , and on roads that clung like swallows ' nests to the mountain-side . The waters foamed on in the depths , the clouds were below him , and he strode on over thistles , Alpine roses , and snow , in the warm summer sun ; and saying farewell to the lands of the North , he passed on under the shade of blooming chestnut trees , and through vineyards and fields of maize . The mountains were a wall between him and all his recollections ; and he wished it to be so . Before him lay a great glorious city which they called _ Milano _ , and here he found a German master who gave him work . They were an old pious couple , in whose workshop he now labored . And the two old people became quite fond of the quiet journeyman , who said little , but worked all the more , and led a pious Christian life . To himself also it seemed as if Heaven had lifted the heavy burden from his heart . His favorite pastime was to mount now and then upon the mighty marble church , which seemed to him to have been formed of the snow of his native land , fashioned into roofs , and pinnacles , and decorated open halls : from every corner and every point the white statues smiled upon him . Above him was the blue sky , below him the city and the wide-spreading Lombard plains , and towards the north the high mountains clad with perpetual snow ; and he thought of the church at Kjoege , with its red , ivy-covered walls , but he did not long to go thither : here , beyond the mountains , he would be buried . He had dwelt here a year , and three years had passed away since he left his home , when one day his master took him into the city , not to the circus where riders exhibited , but to the opera , where was a hall worth seeing . There were seven storeys , from each of which beautiful silken curtains hung down , and from the ground to the dizzy height of the roof sat elegant ladies , with bouquets of flowers in their hands , as if they were at a ball , and the gentlemen were in full dress , and many of them decorated with gold and silver . It was as bright there as in the brilliant sunshine , and the music rolled gloriously through the building . Everything was much more splendid than in the theater at Copenhagen , but then Joanna had been there , and -- could it be ? Yes , it was like magic -- she was here also ! for the curtain rose , and Joanna appeared , dressed in silk and gold , with a crown upon her head : she sang as he thought none but angels could sing , and came far forward , quite to the front of the stage , and smiled as only Joanna could smile , and looked straight down at Knud . Poor Knud seized his master 's hand , and called out aloud , `` Joanna ! '' but no one heard but the master , who nodded his head , for the loud music sounded above everything . `` Yes , yes , her name is Joanna , '' said the master ; and he drew forth a printed playbill , and showed Knud her name -- for the full name was printed there . No , it was not a dream ! All the people applauded , and threw wreaths and flowers to her , and every time she went away they called her back , so that she was always going and coming . In the street the people crowded round her carriage , and drew it away in triumph . Knud was in the foremost row , and shouted as joyously as any ; and when the carriage stopped before her brilliantly lighted house , Knud stood close beside the door of the carriage . It flew open , and she stepped out : the light fell upon her dear face , as she smiled , and made a kindly gesture of thanks , and appeared deeply moved . Knud looked straight into her face , and she looked into his , but she did not know him . A man , with a star glittering on his breast , gave her his arm -- and it was whispered about that the two were engaged . Then Knud went home and packed his knapsack . He was determined to go back to his own home , to the elder and the willow tree -- ah , under the willow tree ! A whole life is sometimes lived through in a single hour . The old couple begged him to remain , but no words could induce him to stay . It was in vain they told him that winter was coming , and pointed out that snow had already fallen in the mountains ; he said he could march on , with his knapsack on his back , in the wake of the slow-moving carriage , for which they would have to clear a path . So he went away towards the mountains , and marched up them and down them . His strength was giving way , but still he saw no village , no house ; he marched on towards the north . The stars gleamed above him , his feet stumbled , and his head grew dizzy . Deep in the valley stars were shining too , and it seemed as if there were another sky below him . He felt he was ill. . The stars below him became more and more numerous , and glowed brighter and brighter , and moved to and fro . It was a little town whose lights beamed there ; and when he understood that , he exerted the remains of his strength , and at last reached the shelter of a humble inn . That night and the whole of the following day he remained there , for his body required rest and refreshment . It was thawing ; there was rain in the valley . But early on the second morning came a man with an organ , who played a tune of home ; and now Knud could stay no longer . He continued his journey towards the north , marching onward for many days with haste and hurry , as if he were trying to get home before all were dead there ; but to no one did he speak of his longing , for no one would have believed in the sorrow of his heart , the deepest a human heart can feel . Such a grief is not for the world , for it is not amusing ; nor is it even for friends ; and moreover he had no friends -- a stranger , he wandered through strange lands towards his home in the north . It was evening . He was walking on the public high-road . The frost began to make itself felt , and the country soon became flatter , containing mere field and meadow . By the road-side grew a great willow tree . Everything reminded him of home , and he sat down under the tree : he felt very tired , his head began to nod , and his eyes closed in slumber , but still he was conscious that the tree stretched its arms above him ; and in his wandering fancy the tree itself appeared to be an old , mighty man -- it seemed as if the `` Willow-father '' himself had taken up his tired son in his arms , and were carrying him back into the land of home , to the bare bleak shore of Kjoege , to the garden of his childhood . Yes , he dreamed it was the willow tree of Kjoege that had traveled out into the world to seek him , and that now had found him , and had led him back into the little garden by the streamlet , and there stood Joanna , in all her splendor , with the golden crown on her head , as he had seen her last , and she called out `` welcome '' to him . And before him stood two remarkable shapes , which looked much more human than he remembered them to have been in his childhood : they had changed also , but they were still the two cakes that turned the right side towards him , and looked very well . `` We thank you , '' they said to Knud . `` You have loosened our tongues , and have taught us that thoughts should be spoken out freely , or nothing will come of them ; and now something has indeed come of it -- we are betrothed . '' Then they went hand in hand through the streets of Kjoege , and they looked very respectable in every way : there was no fault to find with _ them _ . And they went on , straight towards the church , and Knud and Joanna followed them ; they also were walking hand in hand ; and the church stood there as it had always stood , with its red walls , on which the green ivy grew ; and the great door of the church flew open , and the organ sounded , and they walked up the long aisle of the church . `` Our master first , '' said the cake-couple , and made room for Joanna and Knud , who knelt by the altar , and she bent her head over him , and tears fell from her eyes , but they were icy cold , for it was the ice around her heart that was melting -- melting by his strong love ; and the tears fell upon his burning cheeks , and he awoke , and was sitting under the old willow tree in the strange land , in the cold wintry evening : an icy hail was falling from the clouds and beating on his face . `` That was the most delicious hour of my life ! '' he said , `` and it was but a dream . Oh , let me dream again ! '' And he closed his eyes once more , and slept and dreamed . Towards morning there was a great fall of snow . The wind drifted the snow over him , but he slept on . The villagers came forth to go to church , and by the road-side sat a journeyman . He was dead -- frozen to death under the willow tree !